URL: https://factly.in/2013-picture-of-pragya-singh-thakur-getting-admitted-to-a-hospital-shared-with-false-narrative
2013 picture of Pragya Singh Thakur getting admitted to a hospital shared with false narrative - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-05-26T14:47:33+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it as the recent picture of BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur getting admitted at a hospital in Mumbai. This post claim that Pragya Singh Thakur had become ill after drinking cow urine. Pragya Singh Thakur had recently made a statement that drinking cow urine every day has offered her protection against lung infection and the COVID-19 virus. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Recent photo of Pragya Singh Thakur getting admitted to a hospital after drinking cow urine.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is an old one. This photo was captured in January 2013 when Pragya Singh Thakur was taken for medical examination at the Jawaharlal Nehru Cancer Hospital in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh. However, Pragya Singh Thakur recently got admitted to Mumbai’s Kokilaben hospital, after she complained of a problem in breathing. It is nowhere mentioned that the reason for her illness was drinking cow urine. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in an article published by ‘The Hindu’ on 10 January 2013. The description of the photo states, ‘In this January 9, 2013 photo, 2008 Malegaon blast accused Sadhvi Pragya Singh Thakur is being taken to the Jawaharlal Nehru Cancer Hospital for medical examination, in Bhopal’. So, this photo is from 2013 when Pragya Singh Thakur was taken for a medical examination to Jawaharlal Cancer Hospital in Bhopal.
The same image is also used as a representative image in some old news articles published on Pragya Singh Thakur. They can be seen here and here. In March 2021, Pragya Singh Thakur was admitted to Kokilaben hospital in Mumbai, after she complained of a problem in breathing.  But, she was admitted to the hospital much before her statement about cow urine. It is nowhere mentioned that the reason for her illness was drinking cow urine.
To sum it up, 2013 photo is currently shared as BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur getting admitted to a hospital after drinking cow urine.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/05/Pagya-Singh-Thakur-admitted-to-hospital-after-drinking-cow-urine-Claim.jpg