URL: https://factly.in/2013-photo-of-bhojpuri-actor-irfan-khans-arrest-shared-now-with-naayi-jihad-narrative
2013 photo of Bhojpuri actor Irfan Khan’s arrest shared now with ‘Naayi Jihad’ narrative - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-02-27T09:43:27+00:00
A post is being shared on social media claiming that Mumbai police have exposed Naayi (Barber) Jihad in Mumbai’s Bandra. Sharing a picture of two arrested men, this post claims that the accused men have confessed before the police that Mosques are funding them to spread HIV/AIDS disease to the Hindu customers who visit their barber shops. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of two Muslim barbers who were arrested on the charges of spreading HIV/AIDS disease to Hindus in Mumbai’s Bandra.
Fact: The post shared an old picture of Bhojpuri actor Irfan Khan and his friend Sanjay Yadav when they were arrested on the charges of credit cards theft in 2013. The photo does not show accused of any ‘Naayi Jihad’ crime. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the same photo was found in an article published by the ‘India TV’ news website on 18 July 2013. ‘India TV’ reported it is as the picture of Bhojpuri actor Irfan Khan and his friend Sanjay Yadav when they were arrested on the charges of credit cards theft in 2013. The description of the photo states, “Mumbai Police have arrested from Bihar’s Chhapra district, a renowned Bhojpuri actor Irfan Khan and his friend Sanjay Yadav on charges of stealing credit cards, cheque books and bill books,  and then purchasing valuables.”
‘India TV’, ‘ABP News’ and ‘TV9 Bharatvarsh’ news channels published videos reporting the arrest of Bhojpuri actor Irfan Khan’s arrest in 2013. Lately, there are no news reports about Mumbai police exposing the so-called ‘Naayi Jihad’ crime in Bandra or any other place in Mumbai.
To sum it up, an unrelated old photo is shared as Muslim barbers caught by Mumbai police on the charges of spreading AIDS to Hindus.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/02/Naayi-Jihad-exposed-in-Mumbais-Bandra-Claim.jpg