URL: https://factly.in/2014-photo-of-shahrukh-khan-greeting-fans-on-his-birthday-falsely-linked-to-aryan-khans-recent-drug-case
2014 photo of Shahrukh Khan greeting fans on his birthday is linked to Aryan Khan’s recent drug case - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-11-03T12:56:34+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it as recent visuals of Bollywood actor Shahrukh Khan waving at his fans who gathered near his house to celebrate his son Aryan Khan’s release from Jail. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Recent photo of Shahrukh Khan waving at his fans gathered to celebrate his son Aryan Khan’s release from Jail.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is an old one. This photo was taken when Shahrukh Khan thanked his fans gathered outside his house on his 49th birthday in 2014. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo, similar photos were found in an article published by ‘The Times of India’ in 2014. This article reported it as visuals of Shahrukh khan waving at his fans gathered outside his house, Mannat on his 49th birthday on 02 November 2014. Reporting the same, several news websites published similar photos of Shahrukh Khan greeting his fans on the occasion of his 49th birthday in 2014. A few old social media posts and articles sharing the same photo can be seen here and here. ‘The Bollywood News Villa’ YouTube channel published a video showing the complete video of Shahrukh Khan cheering his fans on his birthday in 2014.
Shahrukh Khan had tweeted a similar photo on 02 November 2014 mentioning, ‘So much happiness…so many people to share it with. Hope I am ‘enough’ to do so…all my life’. Before 2020, every year, Shahrukh celebrated his birthday with media and fans gathered at his house Mannat.
So much happiness…so many people to share it with. Hope I am ‘enough’ to do so…all my life. pic.twitter.com/u7v4dWpui9
On 03 October 2021, Shahrukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with the Mumbai cruise ship drug case. Aryan Khan was arrested on charges of consumption, and sale of illegal substances. After several bail rejections from the NCB special court, on 28 October 2021, the Bombay High Court granted bail to Aryan Khan. Following the Bombay High Court’s decision, Shahrukh Khan’s fans gathered at Mannat and celebrated the Aryan Khan’s release from jail. But, the photo shared in the post is old and not related to the current events.
To sum it up, an old photo of Shahrukh Khan greeting fans on his birthday in 2014 is falsely linked to Aryan Khan’s recent drug case.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/11/Shahrukh-Khan-fans-gathered-to-celebrate-Aryan-khan-bail-Claim.jpg