URL: https://factly.in/2014-photo-of-pm-modis-public-meeting-in-kolkata-shared-as-yogis-public-meeting-in-bihar
2014 photo of PM Modi’s public meeting in Kolkata shared as Yogi's public meeting in Bihar. - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-10-22T11:43:10+00:00
A photo which shows a huge crowd gathered at a public meeting is being shared on social media claiming it as the picture of Bihar public meeting where people are eagerly waiting for the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s speech. Ahead of Bihar Assembly elections, this photo is going viral on social media. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: People waiting for the Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath speech in Bihar at a public meeting.
Fact: Photo in the post shows the helicopter view of PM Narendra Modi’s ‘Janchetna sabha’ held in Kolkata in the year 2014. This meeting was in the run-up to the 2014 Loksabha elections. This photo has nothing to do with the Bihar elections and the Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search, a similar photo was found to be posted by social media users at least since February 2014. They can be seen here, here and here. In these posts, they mentioned this photo as the aerial picture of Narendra Modi’s ‘Jan Chetan Sabha’  held in Kolkata in 2014.
When we searched for the official sources of information using these keywords,  a similar photo was found in an article published by the ‘Desh Gujarat’ news website on ‘05 February 2014’. In the article, it is mentioned as the crowd gathered at the Narendra Modi’s  ‘Jan Chetan Sabha’ rally in Kolkata. This public meeting was held on ‘05 February 2014’ in the run-up to the Lok Sabha elections in 2014.  India Today’s article about this meeting can be read here. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the photo in the post is not related to the Bihar elections and Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath.
To sum it up, a 2014 photo of PM Narendra Modi’s public meeting in Kolkata is falsely shared as the Yogi Adityanath’s public meeting in Bihar 2020.

Pingback: इस तस्वीर का बिहार चुनाव और सीएम योगी से कोई लेना-देना नहीं है

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/10/Yogi-Adityanath-Public-meeting-at-Bihar-Claim.jpg