URL: https://factly.in/2015-photo-shared-as-a-recent-picture-of-mukesh-ambanis-family-posing-a-selfie-with-shah-rukh-khan-while-watching-the-pathaan-film
2015 photo shared as a recent picture of Mukesh Ambani’s family posing for a selfie with Shah Rukh Khan when they watched 'Pathaan' - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-01-31T11:57:51+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it is a recent picture of Mukesh Ambani and his family posing for a selfie with Shah Rukh Khan when they watched the Pathaan film together. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Recent picture of Shah Rukh Khan taking a selfie with the Ambani family when they watched the Pathaan film together.
Fact: The photo shared in the post was taken in 2015 during the launch event of Reliance Jio 4G services in Mumbai. The photo is old and unrelated to Shah Rukh Khan’s recently released film Pathaan. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the same photo was found in an article published by the ‘Financial Express’ in December 2015. This article reported it as a picture taken during the launch event of Reliance Jio 4G services on 27 December 2015.
When we searched for further sources of this photo, we found a similar photo in an article published by the ‘Hindustan Times’ on 28 December 2015. ‘Hindustan Times’ reported it as the picture of Shah Rukh Khan taking a selfie with the Ambani family at the launch of Reliance Jio 4G services in Mumbai.
Sharing the images of the Reliance Jio 4G services launch event, several news websites published articles in 2015. Shah Rukh Khan also tweeted a photo of him posing for a selfie with Mukesh Ambani at the Jio 4G launch event. Lately, there are no news reports about Mukesh Ambani’s family watching Pathaan film along with Shah Rukh Khan. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the photo shared in the post is old and has nothing to do with Shah Rukh Khan’s recently released film Pathaan.
To sum it up, a 2015 photo taken during the Reliance 4G launch event is being shared as a recent picture of the Ambani family posing for a selfie with Shah Rukh Khan when they watched ‘Pathaan’.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/01/Ambani-family-taking-selfie-with-SRK-after-watching-Pathaan-Claim.jpg