URL: https://factly.in/2016-photo-of-odd-even-parking-scheme-in-patna-is-shared-as-photo-of-recent-bharat-bandh-in-surat
2016 photo of odd-even parking scheme in Patna is shared as a photo of recent Bharat Bandh in Surat - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-09-29T08:19:58+00:00
A post with a photo is being widely shared on social media claiming that the photo is of the traffic scene in Surat city despite Bharat Bandh. Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a farmer body with nearly 40 farmer unions had called for a 10-hour bandh on 27 September 2021 to mark one year since the President’s assent to the three farm laws. Let us fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of traffic in Surat during the recent Bharat Bandh.
Fact: The photo is on the internet since 2016, it was found on an article which was about an odd-even parking scheme in Patna. Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a farmer body with nearly 40 farmer unions had called for a 10-hour bandh (6 am to 4 pm) on 27 September 2021 to mark one year since the President’s assent to the three farm laws. There are visuals of heavy traffic on Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway and the Bandh caused disruptions in traffic movement in several other cities. Gujarat largely remained peaceful during the Bharat Bandh. However, there were reports of Surat-Mumbai and Ahmedabad-Rajkot highways being blocked briefly affecting traffic movement in few areas. Hence, the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
When reverse image search is done on the photo, the same photo was found in an article on the website Patna Beats. The article was published on 02 November 2016. It was about the launch of an odd-even parking scheme in Patna to overcome traffic issues there. The article does not talk about Surat or the Bharat Bandh on 27 September 2021. There is also a news article about the same scheme in Patna.
Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a farmer body with nearly 40 farmer unions had called for a 10-hour bandh (6 am to 4 pm) on 27 September 2021 to mark one year since the President’s assent to the three farm laws. There are visuals of heavy traffic on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway and the Bandh caused disruptions in traffic movement in several other cities. Gujarat largely remained peaceful during the Bharat Bandh. However, according to this article, there were reports of Surat-Mumbai and Ahmedabad-Rajkot highways being blocked briefly affecting traffic movement in few areas.
To sum it up, a 2016 photo about an odd-even parking scheme in Patna is being shared as the photo from Surat during the recent Bharat Bandh.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/09/Bharat-Bandh-Visuals-In-Cities-Photo_post.jpg