URL: https://factly.in/2017-photo-of-amir-khan-performing-aarti-at-navratri-festival-is-linked-to-his-recently-released-film-laal-singh-chaddha
2017 photo of Aamir Khan performing aarti at Navratri festival is linked to his recently released film Laal Singh Chaddha - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-08-23T13:28:23+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it is a recent picture of Aamir Khan performing aarti and offering pooja after the box office failure of his recently released film Laal Singh Chaddha. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Recent picture of Aamir Khan performing aarti after the failure of his recently released film Laal Singh Chaddha.
Fact: The photo shared in the post was taken in September 2017, when Aamir Khan attended Navratri festival celebrations in Vadodara, Gujarat. As part of the promotions of his film ‘Secret Superstar’, Aamir Khan attended the Navratri festival in Vadodara and performed aarti to the god. The photo shared in the post is old and has nothing to do with his recently released film Laal Singh Chaddha. Hence, the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.  
On reverse image search of the photo, a similar photo was found in an article published by the ‘Pinkvilla’ entertainment news website on 26 September 2017. This article reported it as the visuals of Bollywood actor Aamir Khan performing aarti at the Navratri festival celebrations in Vadodara, Gujarat.
As part of the promotions his film ‘Secret Superstar’, Aamir Khan reportedly attended the Navratri festival in Vadodara and performed aarti to the god. Several mainstream news websites like ‘ANI’ and ‘NDTV’ published videos and articles reporting the news of Aamir Khan attending the Navratri festival celebrations in Vadodara.
Post the box office failure of Laal Singh Chaddha, Aamir Khan was not spotted offering aarti or other prayers inside a Hindu temple. Earlier, Factly published fact-check articles debunking the false claims linked to ‘Laal Singh Chaddha’ and about an alleged false statement, “give milk to the poor and not to shivling”, attributed to Aamir Khan. They can be seen here, here and here.
To sum it up, the 2017 photo of Aamir Khan performing aarti at the Navratri festival celebrations in Vadodara was linked to his recently released film Laal Singh Chaddha.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/08/Amir-Khan-offering-puja-after-Laal-Singh-Chaddha-failure-Claim.jpg