URL: https://factly.in/2017-photo-from-london-is-shared-as-new-york-stock-exchange-featuring-the-recent-victory-of-bjp-in-up
2017 photo from London is shared as New York Stock Exchange featuring the recent victory of BJP in UP - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-03-14T12:44:38+00:00
A photo through a post is being widely shared on social media claiming that the news of the recent victory of BJP in the UP-state assembly elections was displayed as a message on the New York Stock Exchange. Let us fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo shows the message of BJP’s victory in the recent UP elections which is displayed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Fact: The photo is from 2017. The message displayed is on the Thomson Reuters building in Canary Wharf, London, and not the New York Stock exchange. Reuters had written an article about BJP’s electoral victory in UP assembly elections in 2017. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When reverse image search is done on the photo, the same photo was found on Twitter. Amit Malviya, who heads the IT cell in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), had shared the same photo on his Twitter handle, on 12 March 2017. So, the photo is old and not a recent one. Amit Malviya says this photo is from Canary Wharf which is a prominent business district in London. There is no mention of it being from the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The NYSE is in New York City, United States of America.
News of BJP's big win under Prime Minister Modi splashed in Canary Warf, prominent business district of London. Zoom it.. #IAmNewIndia pic.twitter.com/Z17OtsUatL
Similar photos from stock photo websites, and Google maps show that the building which is displaying such a message is the Thomson Reuters building in Canary Wharf, London.  
When the same message is searched on Google, an article (with the same title), by Reuters, about the election victory of BJP in the 2017 assembly elections was found. In the article, Reuters reports that Narendra Modi had won a landslide victory in UP’s state assembly elections.
To sum it up, an old photo of the Thomson Reuters building displaying BJP’s UP election victory in 2017 is shared as the New York Stock Exchange featuring the recent victory of BJP in UP.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/03/NYSE-Message-Modi-Victory-UP-Election-Photo_post.jpg