URL: https://factly.in/2018-image-of-khalsa-aids-relief-work-passed-off-as-that-during-recent-glacier-burst-in-uttarakhand
2018 image of Khalsa Aid’s relief work passed off linking it to recent glacier burst in Uttarakhand - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-02-10T12:57:58+00:00
In the light of the recent Uttarakhand glacier burst, a post accompanying an image of a Sikh man rescuing people stranded in floodwater is being shared on social media platforms with a claim that the image shows Khalsa aid’s relief work in Uttarakhand. Through this article let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Image showing Khalsa aid’s relief work in Uttarakhand.
Fact: This image actually shows Khalsa Aid’s relief work during the Kerala floods back in 2018. Multiples news agencies published this image back in 2018. Although few news articles reported that Khalsa Aid has deployed its volunteers for relief work in Uttarakhand in the wake of glacier burst, the image shared in the post is not related to Uttarakhand relief work. Hence the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
Reverse image search of the photo in the post led us to a 2018 news article by News 18 which published images related to relief work carried by Khalsa Aid’s volunteers during the Kerala floods back in 2018. The image shared in the post is also featured in the set of images published in this news article. This establishes the fact that the image is not related to relief work carried by Khalsa Aid’s volunteers after the recent Uttarakhand glacier burst.
Few other news articles also published the same image attributing it to Khalsa Aid’s relief work during Kerala floods back in 2018, these articles can be seen here and here.
Although few news articles have reported that Khalsa Aid has deployed its volunteers for relief work in Uttarakhand in the wake of glacier burst, the image shared in the post is not related to Uttarakhand relief work.
To sum it up, an old image from Kerala floods is passed off as Khalsa Aid’s relief work in Uttarakhand.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/02/Khalsa-Aid-Uttarakhand-FB-Post.jpg