URL: https://factly.in/2018-photo-is-now-shared-as-tejashwi-yadavs-protest-march-for-the-20-year-old-girl-burnt-alive-in-bihar
2018 photo is now shared as Tejashwi Yadav's protest march for the 20-year-old girl burnt alive in Bihar - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-11-18T14:42:14+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming that the RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav led a candle march in support of the girl who was burnt alive in Bihar. A 20-year-old girl was allegedly burnt alive for resisting molestation in Vaishali district of Bihar. After battling her life for 15 days in Patna Government hospital, she lost her life on ‘15 November 2020’. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav’s candle march to protest for the girl burnt alive in Bihar.
Fact: Photo shared in the post is an old one. In 2018, Tejashwi Yadav lead a candle march in protest of declining law and order in Bihar. This march was organised in protest of the killing of a young business man in Patna. This photo has nothing to do with the recent death of a 20-year-old girl in Bihar. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo is found in an article published by ‘Zee News’ news website on ‘24 December 2018’. In the article, it is mentioned that the RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav led a candle march in protest of declining law and order in Patna, Bihar. This march was organised to protest the killing of a young business man in Patna.
Sharing the same photo in his tweet, Tejashwi Yadav attacked Nitish Kumar government for declining the law and order in the Bihar state. More news articles about this candle march lead by Tejashwi Yadav can be seen here and here.
नीतीश सरकार अपराधियों के आगे नतमस्तक है। नीतीश जी और सुशील मोदी अपराधियों के आगे नाक रगड़ रहे है।व्यापारी वर्ग सपरिवार आक्रोशित है, ख़ौफ़ में है।@RJDforIndia उद्यमियों के साथ इस दुख की घड़ी में साथ है।उद्यमियों को डरने की जरुरत नहीं है।कैंडल मार्च मे बड़ी तादाद में लोग शामिल थे pic.twitter.com/ooAXomWW9x
A 20-year-old girl was burnt alive for resisting molestation in Vaishali district of Bihar. After battling her life for 15 days in Patna Government hospital, she lost her life on ‘15 November 2020’. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav posted a tweet about this incident. In the tweet, he attacked the NDA lead Bihar government for this incident.
कहाँ है एलईडी की रोशनी में दिल्ली से बिहार आकर जंगलराज खोजने वाले?Nation wants to know जंगलराज का महाराजा कौन?? https://t.co/2ebXMqhmLQ
To sum it up, a 2018 photo is now being falsely shared as Tejashwi Yadav’s protest march against the killing of a 20-year-old girl who was allegedly burnt alive after she resisted sexual harassment in Bihar.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/11/Tejashwi-Yadav-candle-march-for-the-women-burnt-alive-in-Bihar-Claim.jpg