URL: https://factly.in/2018-photo-shared-as-king-charles-wearing-a-wrongly-buttoned-coat-after-the-death-of-his-mother-queen-elizabeth-ii
2018 photo shared as King Charles wearing a wrongly buttoned coat after the death of his mother Queen Elizabeth-II - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-09-20T09:15:25+00:00
A photo is being widely shared on social media claiming that King Charles-III was seen wearing a wrongly buttoned coat in public. This post claims that it is a recent picture captured after the death of his mother, the late Queen Elizabeth-II. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.  
Claim: Recent photo of King Charles-III wearing a wrongly buttoned coat after the death of his mother and late Queen Elizabeth-II.
Fact: The photo shared in the post was taken on 01 November 2018, when the then Prince Charles-III visited the Commonwealth War Graves Cemetery in Fajara, Gambia. Charles-III did button his coat in the wrong way when this photo was captured at the Commonwealth War Graves Cemetery. But the photo shared in the post is old and was not taken after the death of Queen Elizabeth-II. Hence, the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the same photo was found on the ‘Getty’ Images website published on 01 November 2018. The description of the photo states, “Britain’s Prince Charles (C), the Prince of Wales, and Camilla (L), the Duchess of Cornwall, visit the Commonwealth War Graves Cemetery in Fajara on November 1, 2018”. A few other image-sharing websites like Alamy have also published the same image with a similar description.
The photo was credited to Reuters photojournalist Luc Gnago and the AFP news agency. A few other news websites have also published the same photo describing it as a picture captured during Prince Charles’s visit to the Commonwealth War Graves Cemetery in Fajara. They can be seen here and here. The ‘Reuters’ published a few other pictures from the same ceremony where we could see Prince Charles had correctly buttoned his coat.
A few recent visuals of King Charles-III meeting prominent political leaders and the public after the death of his mother can be seen here and here. King Charles’s attire from his proclamation ceremony can be seen here. King Charles was not seen in a wrongly buttoned coat in any of these videos.
To sum it up, a 2018 photo is being shared as recent picture of King Charles buttoning his coat in a wrong way after the death of his mother Queen Elizabeth II.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/09/King-Charles-buttons-his-coat-in-a-wrong-way-claim.jpg