URL: https://factly.in/2018-photos-of-pm-modi-paying-respects-at-the-sant-kabir-das-mausoleum-linked-to-the-ongoing-up-elections
2018 photos of PM Modi paying respects at the Sant Kabir Das mausoleum linked to the ongoing UP elections - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-02-18T12:33:13+00:00
A collage of images is being shared on social media claiming it as the recent visuals of PM Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath offering prayers at a Mosque ahead of the UP Elections results on 10 March 2022. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Recent pictures of PM Modi and Yogi Adityanath offering prayers at a mosque ahead of the UP Elections results on 10 March 2022.
Fact: The photos shared in the post were taken in 2018 when PM Narendra Modi and Yogi Adityanath visited the Sant Kabir Das mausoleum in Maghar, Uttar Pradesh. On 28 June 2018, marking the 500th death anniversary of the poet, PM Modi and Yogi Adityanath visited Kabir Das mausoleum and offered chadar on Kabir Das’s Mazar. The photos shared in the post are old and not related to the ongoing UP Elections. Hence, the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
When we searched to check whether PM Narendra Modi and UP Yogi Adityanath had recently visited a mosque ahead of the Uttar Pradesh election results, we could not find any recent news report about such a visit.
On reverse image search of the photos shared in the post, it is found that all the photos shared in the post show old visuals from Narendra Modi’s 2018 visit to the Sant Kabir Das mausoleum in Maghar, Uttar Pradesh. In June 2018, PM Narendra Modi along with Yogi Adityanath had visited Sant Kabir Das mausoleum in Maghar town of the Sant Kabir Nagar district in Uttar Pradesh. Several news organizations have published these photos of PM Modi and Yogi Adityanath paying respects to the Sant Kabir Das’s Mazar. They can be seen here and here.
On 28 June 2018, marking the 500th death anniversary of Sant Kabir Das, PM Modi visited the shrine of Kabir Das in Maghar. PM Modi offered ‘Chadar’ and flowers on Kabir Das’s Mazar and paid his respects to the poet. Narendra Modi tweeted a few photos from his visit to the Sant Kabir Das mausoleum on 28 June 2018.
The ideals of Sant Kabir Das Ji, his emphasis on social equality, brotherhood and justice inspire every Indian. Today I had the honour of paying tributes at the Sant Kabir Samadhi and offering a ‘Chadar' at the Sant Kabir Mazaar in Maghar. Here are some photos. pic.twitter.com/gw7Wk5q6Hu
To sum it up, the 2018 photos of PM Narendra Modi paying respects at Sant Kabir Das mausoleum are being linked to the ongoing UP elections.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/02/Yogi-Adityanath-and-Modi-visited-Mosque-ahead-of-the-UP-Election-results-Claim.jpg