URL: https://factly.in/2018-photo-is-falsely-shared-as-ashok-gehlot-serving-tea-to-congress-party-colleagues-amid-the-political-crisis-in-rajasthan
2018 photo is falsely shared as Ashok Gehlot serving tea to Congress Party colleagues amid the political crisis in Rajasthan - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-07-28T16:45:34+00:00
Photo of Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot serving tea is widely doing the rounds on Facebook. The photo is being shared amid the political crisis in the state and is being claimed that Ashok Gehlot is doing so to convince his party MLAs. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post. 
Claim: Photo of Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot serving tea to convince his party MLAs amid the political crisis in the state.
Fact: The photo is not a recent one and has nothing to do with the ongoing political crisis in Rajasthan. The photo is of Ashok Gehlot serving tea to Congress Party workers after Rajasthan Assembly Election results in 2018. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

When we subjected the image to reverse image search technique, a link of ‘Getty Images’ website was obtained in the results. The article in the link had the same photo and description said that the photo is of Ashok Gehlot serving tea to Congress Party workers after Rajasthan Assembly Election results-2018. So the photo is not recent and has nothing to do with the ongoing political crisis in Rajasthan.
On 12 July 2020, Deputy Chief Minister of Rajasthan Sachin Pilot had revolted against the state government and claimed to have the support of 30 Congress and independent MLAs. Later on, AICC had sacked Sachin Pilot from the position of deputy CM and the party’s Rajasthan unit chief because of his open rebellion. The political crisis in the state is ongoing. Further information about it can be read here and here.  
To sum it up, 2018 photo of Ashok Gehlot serving tea to Congress Party workers after Rajasthan Assembly Election results is being shared amid the political crisis in the state. 
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/07/Gehlot-tea-convincing-MLAs-FB-post-1024x757.jpg