URL: https://factly.in/2019-photo-falsely-shared-as-rahul-and-priyanka-gandhi-laughing-en-route-to-hathras
2019 photo falsely shared as Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi laughing en route to Hathras - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-10-06T15:55:43+00:00
A smiling photo of Rahul Gandhi with his sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is being shared on social media claiming it as the photo shot during their journey to meet the Hathras rape victim’s family. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Rahul Gandhi with his sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra laughing during their journey to meet the Hathras rape victim’s family.Fact: Photo in the post was shot during the 2019 election campaign in Uttar Pradesh. While heading to different meetings as part of the election campaign in U.P, Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra met at Kanpur Airport on ‘27 April 2019’. It has nothing to do with the Hathras rape case. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search, similar photos of Rahul Gandhi with his sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were found in an article published by ‘The Indian Express’ news website on ‘27 April 2019’. In the article, it is mentioned that this photo was shot in Kanpur Airport while both Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were heading towards different public meetings in Uttar Pradesh. Article published by ‘The News Nation’ also shared this photo as a lighter moment between the siblings when they met at the Kanpur airport. These photos were also shared in a tweet posted by U.P East Youth Congress on twitter.
Rahul Gandhi shared these moments with her sister at Kanpur Airport on his official Facebook page. ‘NDTV’ and ‘The Times of India’ news websites also shared the video of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra meeting at Kanpur Airport on ‘27 April 2019’. They can be seen here and here.
To sum it up, an old picture of a lighter moment between Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra Gandhi is falsely linked to their journey to meet the Hathras rape victim’s family.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/10/Rahul-and-Priyank-Gandhi-during-their-journey-to-Hathras-victim-home-claim.jpg