URL: https://factly.in/2019-photo-of-deepika-padukone-linked-to-the-ongoing-row-over-her-saffron-coloured-costume-in-pathaan-film
2019 photo of Deepika Padukone linked to the ongoing row over her saffron-coloured costume in Pathaan film - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-01-06T09:58:20+00:00
Amid the controversy over Deepika Padukone’s saffron-coloured costume in ‘Besharam Rang’ song in ‘Pathaan’, a photo is being shared on social media claiming it as a recent picture showing Deepika Padukone wearing saffron-coloured heels. In the wake of Bajrang Dal activists vandalising ‘Pathaan’ posters at a multiplex in Ahmedabad, this post claims that Deepika Padukone had countered protestors by publishing this picture of her wearing saffron-coloured heels. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Recent picture of Deepika Padukone posing in saffron-coloured heels.
Fact: The post shared Deepika Padukone’s old photo taken at the Cannes International Film Festival in 2019. The photo is old and has nothing to do with the ongoing controversy over Shah Rukh Khan and Deepika Padukone’s starrer film ‘Pathaan’. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the same photo is found in an article published by the ‘Indian Express’ news website in May 2019. This article reported it as Deepika Padukone’s pictures taken at the Cannes International Film Festival held in May 2019. Reporting the same, several news websites published articles in 2019. They can be seen here and here.
On 17 May 2019, Deepika Padukone’s stylist Shaleena Nathani shared the same picture of Deepika Padukone taken at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival. Lately, Deepika Padukone did not pose for any photo wearing saffron-coloured heels.
To sum it up, Deepika Padukone’s old photo taken at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival is being linked to the ongoing row over her saffron-coloured costume in Pathaan film.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/01/Deepika-Padukone-wearing-saffron-coloured-heels-Claim.jpg