URL: https://factly.in/2019-photo-of-a-waterlogged-raymond-showroom-in-patna-is-linked-to-mumbai-rains
2019 photo of a waterlogged Raymond showroom in Patna is linked to Mumbai rains - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-07-23T12:06:31+00:00
An image is being shared on social media claiming it as the visuals of a waterlogged garment showroom in Mumbai. This post claims it as the visuals of the havoc wreaked by the heavy rains in Mumbai. Amid the recent heavy rains in Mumbai, this photo is being shared on social media. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Image of a waterlogged garment showroom in Mumbai.
Fact: This is an old photo of a flooded Raymond showroom in Patna. In September 2019, Bihar experienced heavy rains in several parts of the state. Following the heavy rains in Patna, a Raymond showroom located in Hathua market was filled with rainwater. This photo has nothing to do with the recent Mumbai rains. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo is found in an article published by the ‘Naiduniya’ news website on 28 September 2019. This article reported it as the visuals of a waterlogged Raymond showroom in Patna. According to the article, several districts of Bihar experienced heavy rains on 27 and 28 September 2019. Following the heavy rains in Patna, a Raymond showroom in the Hathua market was reportedly flooded with rainwater. Reporting the same, several news websites have published articles sharing the same photo. They can be seen here and here.   
‘News 18’ channel had tweeted similar photos on 28 September 2019. They reported it as the pictures of waterlogging at Raymond showroom in Patna. The ‘Live Cities Media Private Limited’ YouTube channel had posted a video sharing the live visuals of this flooded Raymond showroom in Patna. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the image shared in the post is an old one and not related to the recent Mumbai rains.
बिहार में भारी बारिश से जन-जीवन अस्त-व्यस्त है। घर, अस्पताल, कार्यालय, दुकान, शोरूम, बाजार हर तरफ पानी जमा है। देखिये पटना के हथुआ मार्केट के सामने स्थित रेमंड शोरूम में जलजमाव की तस्वीरें… आपदा में #News18 करेगा आपकी मदद, हमें भेजिये आपदा की तस्वीर, हमारा नंबर है- 6304923032 pic.twitter.com/VAOlFjG6Ha
To sum it up, an old photo of a waterlogged Raymond showroom in Patna was is linked to the Mumbai rains.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/07/Garement-showroom-in-Mumbai-filled-with-rainwater-Claim.jpg