URL: https://factly.in/2019-photo-of-a-labour-rally-in-west-bengal-falsely-linked-to-the-ongoing-farmers-protest
2019 photo of labourers rally in West Bengal falsely linked to the ongoing farmers’ protest - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-12-24T11:37:29+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it as that of a rally conducted in West Bengal in support of farmers. In the wake of ongoing farmers’ protest over the new agriculture legislation, this photo is going viral on social media. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of a rally conducted in West Bengal in support of ongoing farmers’ protest.
Fact: This photo was captured during a rally conducted by the CPI(M) in West Bengal in 2019. The rally was organized by CPI(M) against the policies being implemented by the Government of India. This photo has nothing to do with the ongoing farmers’ protest. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in a report published in 9GAG website. It is reported as the 2019 rally of labourers, organised by Communist Party of India (Marxist) against the policies of Government of India. This rally took place at Kolkata on ‘11 December 2019’.
Sharing the same photo, CPI (M) West Bengal posted a tweet on their official handle. In the tweet, it is mentioned as the photo from the Labour rally organised by them on ‘11 December 2019’ in Kolkata, West Bengal.
Birds eye view of today's public meeting at Rani Rashmani Road which was organised to mark the culmination of 12 days long #WorkersLongMarch against  privatization, anti workers policies, divisive agenda of #NRC, #CAB & rampant retrenchment of the labors. pic.twitter.com/1tq2kxaWqm
Factly earlier debunked similar fake claims about the crowd gatherings in farmers’ protests. They can be seen here and here.
To sum it up, 2019 photo of labourers rally in West Bengal falsely linked to the ongoing farmers’ protest.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/12/Bengal-people-rally-supporting-farmers-protest-claim.jpg