URL: https://factly.in/2019-photo-shared-as-recent-picture-of-akhilesh-and-mulayam-singh-yadav-congratulating-yogi-adityanath
2019 photo shared as recent picture of Akhilesh and Mulayam Singh Yadav congratulating Yogi Adityanath - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-03-17T12:34:26+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it as the recent picture of Samajwadi Party leaders Akhilesh, Shivpal and Mulayam Singh Yadav congratulating Yogi Adityanath for his victory in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly Elections. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Recent picture of Akhilesh and Mulayam Singh Yadav meeting UP CM Yogi Adityanath and congratulating him for his victory in the 2022 UP Assembly Elections.
Fact: The photo shared in the post shows UP CM Yogi Adityanath’s visit to Mulayam Singh Yadav’s residence in Lucknow in 2019, a day after Mulayam Singh Yadav was admitted to the hospital with high blood sugar levels. Yogi Adityanath had met Mulayam Sigh Yadav to inquire about his health. Akhilesh Yadav did not meet and congratulate Yogi Adityanath after the recent 2022 UP election results. Hence, the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
On reverse image search of the photo, the same photo was found in a tweet made by ‘ANI UP/Uttarakhand’ on 10 June 2019. ‘ANI’ reported that Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath had met SP leader Mulayam Singh Yadav at his residence to inquire about his health. A day before Yogi Adityanath’s visit, Mulayam Singh Yadav was reportedly admitted to the hospital due to high blood sugar levels. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav and Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party Chief Shivpal Yadav were also present this meeting between Yogi Adityanath visited Mulayam Singh Yadav.
UP CM Yogi Adityanath meets SP leader Mulayam Singh Yadav at his residence. MS Yadav was admitted to hospital yesterday due to high levels of blood sugar. SP Chief Akhilesh Yadav and Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party Chief Shivpal Yadav also present. pic.twitter.com/bOKWeqa6uq
Reporting Yogi Adityanath’s meeting with Mulayam Singh Yadav’s family, several news websites published articles and videos in June 2019. They can be seen here, here, and here.
After the UP Elections results, on 11 March 2021, Akhilesh Yadav made a tweet thanking the people of Uttar Pradesh for increasing the Samajwadi Party’s seats by two and a half times. Akhilesh Yadav emphasized that they have shown a reduction in BJP seats is possible and said that it will further reduce in the upcoming elections.  Post-UP Elections results,  Akhilesh Yadav did not meet and congratulate Yogi Adityanath for his victory in the elections.
उप्र की जनता को हमारी सीटें ढाई गुनी व मत प्रतिशत डेढ़ गुना बढ़ाने के लिए हार्दिक धन्यवाद!हमने दिखा दिया है कि भाजपा की सीटों को घटाया जा सकता है। भाजपा का ये घटाव निरंतर जारी रहेगा।आधे से ज़्यादा भ्रम और छलावा दूर हो गया है बाकी कुछ दिनों में हो जाएगा।जनहित का संघर्ष जीतेगा!
To sum it up, an old photo is shared as a recent picture of SP Leaders Mulayam and Akhilesh Yadav congratulating Yogi Adityanath post UP Elections results.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/03/Akhilesh-and-Mulayam-Singh-Yadav-congratulating-Yogi-Adityanath-Claim.jpg