URL: https://factly.in/2019-photo-of-taapsee-pannus-visit-to-mumbais-siddhivinayak-temple-is-linked-to-her-recent-film-dobaaraa
2019 photo of Taapsee Pannu’s visit to Mumbai’s Siddhivinayak Temple is linked to her recent film Dobaaraa - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-08-23T11:24:21+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it is a recently clicked picture of Bollywood actress Taapsee Pannu when she was spotted at the Siddhivinayak temple in Mumbai. In the wake of Taapsee’s recent film ‘Dobaaraa’’s disappointing run at the box office , this post claims that Taapsee has become religious instantly after her film bombed at the box office. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Taapsee Pannu’s picture at the Siddhivinayak temple after her film Dobaaraa was unsuccessful at the box office.
Fact: The photo shared in the post was captured in October 2019, when Taapsee Pannu along with her parents visited the Siddhivinayak temple in Prabhadevi, Mumbai. Ahead of the release of her film ‘Saand Ki Ankh’, Taapsee visited the temple to take blessings for the success of her film. The photo shared in the post is old and has nothing to do with Taapsee’s recently released film Dobaaraa. Hence, the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, similar images were found in an article published by the ‘Mid-Day’ news website on 26 October 2019. A description under one of these images state, “Taapsee Pannu along with her father Dilmohan Singh Pannu and mother Nirmaljeet went to seek Lord Ganesha’s blessing at the Siddhivinayak Temple in Prabhadevi, Mumbai”.
Ahead of the release of her film ‘Saand Ki Ankh’, Taapsee along with her family reportedly visited Siddhivinayak temple in October 2019. Reporting the same, several others have published articles and videos in 2019. They can be seen here and here.
Taapsee Pannu starred, and Anurag Kashyap directed Dobaaraa film was released on 19 August 2022. Following the poor reviews from the audience, Dobaaraa film reportedly collected only 2.98 crores in the opening weekend. But the photo shared in the post has nothing to do with Taapsee Pannu’s recently released film Dobaaraa. Also, there are no news reports that stated Taapsee Pannu had visited Ajmer Dargah seeking blessings for the success of her films.
To sum it up, an old photo clicked during Taapsee Pannu’s visit to Mumbai’s Siddhivinayak Temple in 2019 is being linked to her recently released film Dobaaraa.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/08/Tapsee-Pannus-recent-picture-at-Siddivinayaka-temple-Claim.jpg