URL: https://factly.in/a-cg-concept-video-is-falsely-shared-as-actual-visuals-of-a-chennai-signboard-showing-photos-of-traffic-violators
A CG concept video is falsely shared as actual visuals of a Chennai signboard showing photos of traffic violators - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-06-27T13:46:24+00:00
A video circulating on social media shows a person’s photo displayed on a digital signboard attached to a traffic signal, stating that they crossed the red signal. This video is being shared with a claim that this system will be implemented soon. Let’s verify this claim through this article.
Claim: Digital signboards that display the photo of traffic violators are to be installed soon in Chennai.
Fact: Chennai traffic police or the Greater Chennai Corporation has not officially released any statement on installing such systems in the city. The signboard seen in the viral clip is created using CGI. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.
To learn more details about the viral video, we searched the internet to know if any credible media outlets have reported on such a decision taken by the Greater Chennai Corporation. But, we did not find any such reports stating that digital signboards for traffic violators will be installed soon in Chennai
Then, we performed a reverse image search on a few keyframes of the viral video, which led us to an Instagram post containing the same video. This post described it as a CGI concept video created by @riggedindian. 
A post shared by The Culture Gully (@theculturegully)
Riggedindian uploaded the same video on 08 June 2023, with a description that reads, ‘This video is a concept video. Signal tracker in Chennai to avoid traffic rules violations. This is a CGI concept video.’ 
A post shared by RiggedIndian (@riggedindian)
Riggedindian, who has almost 75K followers on Instagram, uploads such VFX/Animated artwork.
A post shared by RiggedIndian (@riggedindian)
To sum up, a CG concept video is falsely shared as actual visuals of a Chennai signboard showing photos of traffic violators.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/06/CG-Concept-sign-board-Claim--941x1024.jpg