URL: https://factly.in/a-morphed-photo-is-being-falsely-shared-as-gangster-vikas-dubey-dancing-along-with-bjp-spokesperson-sambit-patra
A Morphed photo is being falsely shared as gangster Vikas Dubey dancing with BJP Spokesperson Sambit Patra - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-07-13T12:01:43+00:00
A photo of gangster Vikas Dubey dancing along with BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra has gone viral on social media. Gangster Vikas Dubey & his men killed 8 police personnel including a Deputy Superintendent of police (D.S.P) and 3 Sub Inspectors in Bikaru village, Kanpur. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Image of Gangster Vikas Dubey dancing  with Sambit Patra.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is a morphed one. Vikas Dubey, 21 days before his encounter danced in a wedding reception of his follower Amar Dubey. By morphing the face of a person dancing with Vikas Dubey with that of Sambit Patra, this photo is being falsely shared on social media. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, we found the original photo in the article published by a Hindi newspaper website ‘Amar Ujala’. By observing the photo shared in that article, it is understood that the image shared in the viral post is a morphed one. In the article, they described that 21 days before his encounter, Gangster Vikas Dubey attended a wedding reception of his follower Amar Dubey. He danced along with his friends and followers in that wedding party. Morphing the face of a person who danced with Vikas Dubey with the face of Sambit Patra, this viral photo is being falsely sharing on the social media platforms. Article with similar content showing the original photo was found also in ‘Asr24news’ website.
On ‘02 July 2020’, Gangster Vikas Dubey and his mean killed 8 police personnel including a Deputy Superintendent of Police (D.S.P), 3 Sub Inspectors in Bikaru village, Kanpur. After a week on the run from the U.P police, Vikas Dubey was arrested on ‘09 July 2019’ in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh. The very next day on  ‘10 July 2020’, Vikas Dubey was killed in an encounter with U.P police while he was being taken back to Kanpur. Even after his death, several viral posts continue on social media connecting Dubey to one or the other political leader, including Sambit Patra.
To sum it up, a morphed photo was being falsely shared as gangster Vikas Dubey dancing with BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra.
Did you watch our new video?

Pingback: A Morphed photograph is being falsely shared as gangster Vikas Dubey dancing with BJP Spokesperson Sambit Patra - FACTLY - Google Trends Now
Pingback: A Morphed photograph is being falsely shared as gangster Vikas Dubey dancing with BJP Spokesperson Sambit Patra - FACTLY - UK.GOOGLEHITS.COM

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/07/Vikas-Dubey-dancing-along-with-Sambit-patra-claim.jpg