URL: https://factly.in/a-photo-of-nepals-tik-tok-stars-falsely-shared-a-photo-of-finlands-ministers
A photo of Nepal's Tik Tok stars falsely shared as a photo of Finland's ministers - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-07-28T09:44:00+00:00
A photo of four women is being shared through a social media post with a claim it features four female Ministers of Finland’s newly formed government. Let’s fact-check this claim through this article.
Claim: This photo shows four female ministers of the recently formed government of Finland.
Fact: The women in this photo are two Nepali twin sisters who are famous on Tik Tok. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.
Firstly, we searched the internet for the photo of Female ministers of the Finland government, which led us to a few news articles (here and here) from 2019 when the last government of Finland was elected (Parliamentary Elections were conducted in 2023, and a new government was formed with Petteri Orpo as the New PM ). These articles contained a photo of the previous PM Sanna Marin with three female ministers of her cabinet, which can be seen below. The names of these ministers match the ones mentioned in the viral photo, but the people are different. 
Furthermore, we performed a reverse image search on Google to learn more details about the vial photo. This search revealed that the women in the Viral image are tik tok stars of Nepal (here). They are two pairs of twins named Deepa and Damanta and  Princy and Prisma. 
The same photo of theirs went viral in 2019, claiming it as a picture of ministers of Finland. This claim was refuted by the ambassador of Finland Anna-Kaisa Heikkinen, who tweeted the photo of the real ministers of Finland.
Travelling in #India, I have been told this photo is making big rounds in the social media right now, allegedly representing the four young party leaders and ministers of #Finland. 😉 Forwarding the correct picture of our five party chairs for anyone’s reference. #factcheck https://t.co/Fi6WCV7AuB pic.twitter.com/i23Vg9d7HW
To sum up, a photo of Nepal’s Tik Tok stars falsely shared a photo of Finland’s ministers.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/07/Finland-Female-Ministers-Claim--830x1024.jpg