URL: https://factly.in/a-photo-taken-in-greece-is-falsely-shared-as-the-beautiful-visual-of-the-agra-lucknow-expressway-in-up
A photo taken in Greece is falsely shared as the beautiful visual of the Agra-Lucknow Expressway in UP - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-02-18T17:49:46+00:00
A beautiful image of a road leading as if towards the moon is being shared on social media claiming it as the night view picture of the Agra-Lucknow Express highway in Uttar Pradesh. Sharing the photo, this post thanked the former Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party Government for inaugurating such projects for the development of Uttar Pradesh. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.  
  The archived version of the posts can be seen here.  
Claim: The beautiful night view picture of the Agra-Lucknow Expressway in Uttar Pradesh.
Fact: This picture shared in the post was shot at Veria city in Greece. This photo was originally shared by Argiris Karamouzas in February 2019. This has nothing to do with the Agra-Lucknow Expressway in Uttar Pradesh. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the same photo was found to be posted on the ‘Architecture & Design’ Facebook page on 09 September 2019. This Facebook page mentioned that the photo was shot at Veria city in Greece. Also, this Facebook page credited the photo to Argiris Karamouzas.
Argiris Karamouzas, a medical representative by profession and a photographer by hobby, had first shared this photo on his Instagram handle on 20 February 2019. The description of the photo states, “When all roads lead to the moon. plain of Veria with endless views and unfortunately yesterday with a lot of pollution in the atmosphere”.
In December 2020, when his photo was published in a magazine, Argiris Karamouzaa thanked the magazine and the people for making his ‘Moon of Veria’ photo popular even after two years. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the image shared in the post shows the beautiful night view picture of a road in Veria, not the Agra-Lucknow Expressway in Uttar Pradesh.
To sum it up, a photo taken in Greece was falsely shared as the beautiful visuals of the Agra-Lucknow Expressway in Uttar Pradesh.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/02/Beautiful-picture-of-Agra-Lucknow-Expressway-Claim.jpg