URL: https://factly.in/a-photo-of-gehna-vasisths-wedding-is-falsely-shared-as-bageshwar-dham-dhirendra-shastris-sister
A Photo of Gehana Vasisth's wedding is falsely shared as Bageshwar Dham Dhirendra Shastri's sister - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-06-28T09:28:26+00:00
A photo of a couple in traditional attire is viral on social media, claiming that the woman seen in it is Bageshwar Dham Dhirendra Shastri’s sister ‘Vandana Tiwari’. A post that shares this photo claims that she is marrying a Muslim man without the knowledge of her brother. Let’s verify the truth behind these claims through this fact-checking article.
Claim: Vandana Tiwari, Sister of Bageshwar Dham Dhirendra Shastri, is marrying a Muslim man.
Fact: The woman seen in this photo is Actress Gehana Vasisth, whose original name is Vandana Tiwari. Dhirendra Shastri’s sister married a Hindu named Kamlesh Chauraha in 2015. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.
To learn more about the viral photo, we performed a reverse image search on Google, leading us to various news reports (here, here, and here) containing the same image. According to these reports, the couple featured in this photo is actress Gehana Vasisth and her husband, Faizan Ansari, who got married in January this year. Gehana Vasisth’s original name is reportedly Vandana Tiwari.
According to BBC, Bageshwar Dham’s Dhirendra Shastri has a sister named Rita Garg, and she is already married.
Regarding this issue, Bageshwar Dham’s PRO, Kamal Awasthi, told Aaj Tak that she married a Hindu man called Kamlesh Chauraha in 2015. All of this makes it evident that the viral photo is being misquoted as a picture of Dhirendra Shastri’s sister and her Muslim husband while it actually features Actress Gehana Vasisth and her husband.
To sum up, the photo of Gehna Vasisth is falsely shared as Bageshwar Dham Dhirendra Shastri’s sister.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/06/Bhageshwar-Dham-Shastris-sister-marriying-a-muslim-CLaim.jpg