URL: https://factly.in/a-photoshopped-image-of-hoshang-shah-tomb-pillars-is-being-shown-as-1212-pillars-at-the-rameshwaram-temple
A photoshopped image of Hoshang Shah Tomb pillars is being shown as 1212 pillars at the Rameshwaram temple - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-08-14T12:38:29+00:00
An image of pillars is being shared widely on social media with a claim that the image was taken at the Rameshwaram temple, where 1212 pillars meet in one dot. Let’s try to analyze the claim made in the post. 
Claim: Image of 1212 pillars meeting in one dot at the Rameshwaram temple. 
Fact: The picture of 1212 pillars meeting in one dot at the Rameshwaram temple is a photoshopped image. Also, the pillars in the photo are very different from the pillars at the Rameshwaram temple (Arulmigu Ramanatha Swami Temple). Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When looked for the Rameshwaram temple with 1212 pillars on Google, the official website of Arulmigu Ramanatha Swami Temple (Rameshwaram) can be found in the search results. On the website, it can be read that the temple has 1212 pillars in its third corridor.
But the pillars in the temple are very different from the pillars in the posted picture. The pillars are more intricately carved and are placed on a raised platform.
Also, the posted picture looks photoshopped because the same crack can be seen on all the pillars on the left.
In an article published by SMHoaxSlayer in 2017, it was written that this picture is a modified version of Hoshang Shah Tomb pillars. When searched for the images of ‘Hoshang Shah Tomb’ on Google, similar pillar photos were found in the search results. There are only 81 pillars in Hoshang Shah Tomb. Lot of such images of Hoshang Shah tombs can be found on Getty Images also.
To sum it up, a photoshopped image of Hoshang Shah Tomb pillars is being shown as 1212 pillars at the Rameshwaram temple.
Did you watch our new Episode of the DECODE series on Parliament?

Let things be actually verified instead of relying on Google only.Overall it is fact lots of temples have extraordinary paintings,sculpture & architecture.
So what 😡. Even pillars shown by you as temple pillars are more beautiful then you claim of hoshang tomb pillars. And what about other buildings, will you deny even these as Indian cultire…..
These pillars look like as the pillars at Meenakshi temple, Madurai.  Am I right?

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/08/Rameshwaram-1212-pillars-FB-Post.jpg