URL: https://factly.in/a-photo-of-a-murdered-woman-with-a-trident-tattooed-on-her-forearm-is-shared-with-a-false-communal-angle
Photo of a murdered woman with a trident tattoo on her forearm is shared with a false communal angle - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-06-06T11:32:42+00:00
A photo depicting a person’s forearm adorned with a tattoo of the Om symbol and a trident is being shared, asserting a case of love jihad. Sharing the image, a social media post claims that a dead body of a Hindu girl has been found in the Arabian Sea near Mumbai. Through this article let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Dead body of a Hindu woman, who is believed to have succumbed to the influence of love jihad, was discovered in the Arabian Sea near Mumbai.
Fact: The image depicts a deceased woman named Anjali Mintu Singh, murdered by her husband Mintu Singh and brother-in-law Chun Chun Singh, suspecting her of having an illicit relationship. As both the victim and accused are Hindus, there is no Love Jihad angle associated to the incident. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
The viral image does show a Hindu woman who has been killed. However, there is no love jihad angle associated with the incident, as claimed in the viral post.
Reverse image search of the viral photo yielded news articles that reported the same image. One such news report dated 02 June 2023, stated that the headless body of a woman was found in a travel bag of an Alfa company on the beach in Uttan area west of Bhayandar in Maharashtra. Upon receiving the information, the police started an investigation, the article reported.
Another news article dated 04 June 2023, reported that a police investigation revealed that the woman was murdered by her husband Mintu Singh, and brother-in-law Chun Chun Singh.
Several news agencies have reported the incident. A news report, that identified the deceased as Anjali Mintu Singh, reported that the husband of the deceased woman committed the gory crime suspecting her of having an illicit relationship. Both the accused were booked under sections 302 and 201 of the IPC at the Uttan coastal police station.
Hence, these details establish that there is no love jihad angle to the incident, as both the victim and accused are Hindus.
To sum it up, the photo of a murdered woman with a trident tattoo on her forearm is shared with a false communal angle.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/06/Mumbai-Hindu-Woman-Dead-LoveJihad-Claim-1.jpg