URL: https://factly.in/akhilesh-yadav-promised-babri-masjid-at-ayodhya-ram-mandir-location-no-its-an-edited-tweet-photo
Akhilesh Yadav promised Babri Masjid at Ayodhya Ram Mandir location? No, it’s an edited tweet's photo - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-07-23T14:04:24+00:00
A photo of a tweet allegedly made by SP Chief Akhilesh Yadav is being shared on social media. In the tweet, it is written – ‘If our government is formed in Uttar Pradesh, then we promise our Muslim brothers that we will build Babri Masjid in the same place where Ram Mandir is being constructed currently’ (English translation). Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Akhilesh Yadav’s tweet promising the construction of Babri Masjid in the place of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya if his party forms the government in UP.
Fact: Akhilesh Yadav has not made the tweet in the photo. It is an edited one. The text of the tweet is not properly aligned. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When we searched for such a tweet on the official Twitter handle of Akhilesh Yadav, no such tweet was found to be made by him. If such a tweet was made by him and existed on the handle for at least 17 hours (as mentioned in the photo), either somebody would have archived the tweet, or news agencies would have reported about the tweet. But we neither found any archived versions of the tweet nor any news reports regarding the tweet.
Also, the alignment of the text in the image is not right. In the below photo, the text in the posted tweet goes onto the red line whereas the text in his original tweets (tweet format in the mobile version) perfectly aligns with the line.
A 2020 video of Akhilesh Yadav, saying that he will visit the Ayodhya Ram Mandir with his wife and children can be seen here. When similar posts went viral in Telugu last month, FACTLY has written a fact-check article, which can be read here.
To sum it up, an edited photo of a tweet is being falsely shared to claim that Akhilesh Yadav promised Babri Masjid at Ayodhya Ram Mandir location, if his party comes to power.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/07/Akhilesh-Yadav-Tweet-on-Ayodhya-FB-Post-1024x394.jpg