URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-claiming-to-show-azimio-leaders-presenting-a-box-full-of-opinion-polls-to-the-79db6d76142b
ALTERED: This image claiming to show Azimio leaders presenting a box full of opinion polls to the Supreme Court is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-08-25T13:22:51.561Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Twitter claiming to show leaders of Azimio la Umoja — One Kenya political coalition presenting a box full of opinion polls to the Supreme Court of Kenya is ALTERED.
In the image are among other political leaders former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, a contestant in the 9 August 2022 presidential election, his running mate Martha Karua and Siaya County governor-elect James Orengo.
The politicians are holding two boxes, one of them labelled: “Azimio volume 39 (Opinion polls)” and the other: “Azimio volume 38 (maths errors)”.
“SCOK (Supreme Court of Kenya) must determine whether opinion polls results can form part of the admissible evidence. Taking into consideration that most of the pollsters were bankrolled by the same petitioners,” the tweet accompanying the image reads.
On 22 August 2022, the Azimio leaders filed a petition at the Supreme Court to challenge the presidential election results and overturn the declaration of William Ruto as president-elect. The leaders delivered a truckload of evidence in labelled boxes to the apex court.
However, a reverse image search indicates that the box in question did not contain opinion polls as claimed. Among the search results is a tweet by Orengo, which contains the image in question, among a series of others taken at the Supreme Court.
A careful study of the image shows that one of the boxes is labelled “Azimio volume 34” and not “Azimio volume 39 (opinion polls)” as claimed, while the other is labelled “Azimio volume 33” and not “Azimio volume 38 (maths errors)”.
PesaCheck has examined the image shared on Twitter claiming to show leaders of Azimio la Umoja — One Kenya political coalition presenting a box full of opinion polls to the Supreme Court and found it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*7NDak0wv_xFnYRVe