URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-of-the-front-cover-of-the-daily-mails-april-5-2021-edition-is-doctored-90863e4645f9
ALTERED: This image of the front cover of the Daily Mail’s April 5, 2021 edition, is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-04-13T19:12:05.071Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post claiming to show the front cover of the April 5, 2021 edition of the Daily Mail newspaper and a headline, “Ignorant Kenyans Invade International Monetary Fund (IMF) Page on Facebook”, is ALTERED.
A blurb above the headline says that Kenyan citizens, in a ‘comical appeal’, asked the IMF not to lend the country money.
The image has been shared amid reports that hundreds of thousands of Kenyans have signed an online petition requesting the IMF to cancel the KSh 255 billion low-cost financing that it has agreed to advance to the government of Kenya. The loan is in support of the next phase of Kenya’s COVID-19 response. Those behind the appeal cite a general lack of accountability on the part of government as the reason for their opposition to the agreement.
News reports about the petition have been published in a number of publications, including The Standard, Tuko.co.ke and Citizen TV.
However, a look through the Daily Mail’s news archive containing a list of stories that made headlines on the April 5, 2021 edition reveals no such story, contrary to what the altered front page claims.
Other stories highlighted on the fake front cover are similar to those that were carried by the legitimate front page of the Daily Mail, which was posted on the publication’s website.
The lead story on the legitimate front page reports about a mass screening plan by the UK government involving two COVID-19 tests each week for everyone with Prime Minister Boris Johnson urging that this was vital to safeguard the unlocking of the country.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post claiming to show the front cover of the April 5, 2021 edition of the Daily Mail with a headline stating “Ignorant Kenyans Invade IMF Page on Facebook’, and finds it is ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*Ux1MUjn-y4C_LNJN