URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-claiming-to-show-a-genocide-in-the-tole-kebelle-of-wollega-in-ethiopia-is-115348a9fb97
ALTERED: This image claiming to show a genocide in the Tole Kebelle of Wollega in Ethiopia is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-07-28T13:47:54.826Z

Listen
Share
This image on a Facebook post that claims to show a victim of genocide in the Tole Kebelle of Wollega, Ethiopia is ALTERED.
The post reads: “Account of the Recent Genocide in the Tole Locality of Wellega, Western Ethiopia. A resident of Tole said ‘I swear in the name of Allah’ and added that ‘the administrator of the Tole locality or village Mr. Nigatu Ummeta, said he had organised and undertaken massacre of Amara civilians on the instruction of officials in the upper echelons of the power hierarchy of the regional administration (of the Oromo Regional state)’.”
According to the post; “The administrator of the Tole Mr. Negatu Ummeta (an ethnic Oromo) and the head of the Militia office of Tole village Mr. Kidane Merwa (an ethnic Oromo) have publicly revealed the truth about the genocide four days after they have been imprisoned by the Federal Ethiopian army. According to Mr. Negatu Ummeta, Mr. Batcha, the administrator of the Gimbi district and the head of the Peace and Security office of the same district called him by phone and instructed him to carry out genocide against the Amara inhabitants of the Tole village. Read more.”
A link that directs to this website is attached. A similar claim with the same image was published on this website.
However, results from Yandex reverse image search show that the alleged image is unrelated to the killings in Wollega, in the Oromia region. Also, the photo is digitally manipulated to make it appear as if the woman is hit by an arrow.
The original photo was shared on the Boston website on 23 June 2008 with a caption that states: “Amina Nanessa Mohamed cries as she arrives at her home carrying the body of her four-year-old daughter Michu who died of malnutrition near Shashemene, southern Ethiopia June 8, 2008.”
The image credit is given to REUTERS/Radu Sigheti.
The same image with the same description was published on this website on 23 June 2008.
In addition to being old, the claimed image is doctored. As seen above, the original image shows the woman with no signs of being hit by an arrow. But in the claimed image, an arrow is digitally added at the shoulder of the woman.
The media reported a massacre in Tole Kebelle of the Oromia region in June 2022. However, as seen here and here, the image under investigation has been used on various online platforms since 2008.
PesaCheck has looked into the thumbnail image shared in a Facebook post that claims to show a victim of genocide in the Tole Kebelle of Wollega and finds it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*0Ngw1lEcoDyKyDmN