URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-of-pastor-paul-mackenzie-in-an-odm-branded-t-shirt-has-been-doctored-68e1e7359ed3
ALTERED: This image of Pastor Paul Mackenzie in an ODM-branded T-shirt has been doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-05-09T07:08:12.718Z

Listen
Share
This image of Good News International Church Pastor Paul Mackenzie in an Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party-branded T-shirt has been ALTERED.
The T-shirt has the initials “ODM” above the image of an orange fruit on the right side. The official logo of ODM, an opposition party in Kenya, is the orange fruit.
The image is shared along with the claim that Mackenzie has asked ODM leader Raila Odinga to save him from political persecution, citing a purported mutual relationship.
We performed a keyword search on Google and found that no credible media organisation reported that Mackenzie had made such an appeal to Odinga. A reverse image search showed a similar image on Nation Africa taken when Mackenzie was being interviewed by the media outlet on 24 March 2023 in Kilifi County.
Also captured by Nation Africa is a different image of Mackenzie in a T-shirt written “Times TV”, not ODM as alleged by the Facebook post we are fact-checking. We established that Times TV is a Kenyan TV station associated with Pastor Mackenzie.
There are also no news reports of the pastor’s association with the ODM party.
Mackenzie is awaiting arraignment on charges of asking his followers to starve to death in order to meet Jesus. More than 100 bodies of congregants have been exhumed from his 800-acre Shakahola farm in Kilifi County.
The pastor appeared in court on 2 May 2023 in connection with the deaths, but the case has since been transferred to a higher court in Mombasa. The preacher faces terrorism charges and has been detained until 5 May 2023, when an application to hold him for 30 more days was to be heard.
PesaCheck has looked into an image of Kenya’s Pastor Paul Mackenzie of Good News International Church in an Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party-branded T-shirt and found it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/1*n_HnDZfhhCtfTNCDp71peQ.png