URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-of-pastor-mackenzie-and-kenyas-first-lady-rachel-ruto-has-been-doctored-6166a5d6a4e3
ALTERED: This image of Pastor Mackenzie and Kenya’s First Lady Rachel Ruto has been doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-04-28T12:32:55.770Z

Listen
Share
This image on Facebook purportedly of Kenya’s First Lady Rachel Ruto, Pastor Paul Mackenzie and other unidentified people in Narok has been ALTERED.
The text accompanying the photo reads: “Pastor Paul Mackenzie alongside Kenya Kwanza Government first lady in Narok county.. sisemi kitu labda wewe (no comment).” And the caption states: “First Lady with Pastor Mckenzie in Narok last month”.
The image has also been shared here and here, accompanied by a text in Swahili that translates to; “No wonder he is very arrogant..”
This comes after police exhumed bodies believed to be of people who starved to death on the basis of what Mackenzie teaches. The bodies had been buried in shallow graves in Shakahola Forest in Kilifi County.
According to media reports, Mackenzie told his congregation at the Good News International Church to starve themselves so as to meet Jesus.
The pastor has since been condemned by several Kenyan leaders, with Kenyan President William Ruto likening the preacher’s actions to terrorism, and Interior Cabinet Secretary Kithure Kindiki recommending that Mackenzie be charged with genocide.
Rachel Ruto is quoted by this Citizen Digital article listing faith as one of the “three strategic pillars” she intends to use in transforming Kenya.
A Google reverse image search of the photo brings up this tweet on the First Lady’s Twitter account on 22 January 2023 with the picture we are fact-checking among the four shared. However, the man in the photo is not Mackenzie.
Similarly, a closer look at this photo on the First Lady’s verified Facebook page on 22 January 2023 shows that the man in the photo is not Mackenzie.
It appears Mackenzie’s face was digitally embossed on the photo to imply a connection between the First Lady and the controversial pastor.
PesaCheck has looked into an image on Facebook purportedly of Pastor Paul Mackenzie and First Lady Rachel Ruto in Narok and found it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/1*gPmiDEfKkFluU_FWooh8iw.png