URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-of-a-statue-of-raila-odinga-in-south-africa-is-doctored-3f3fd2f22e2
ALTERED: This image of a statue of Raila Odinga in South Africa is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-12-02T06:43:49.201Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with a photo claiming to show a statue of Kenya’s former prime minister, Raila Odinga, erected in South Africa is ALTERED.
The image shows a smiling Mr Odinga, with an unidentified building in the background.
The post accompanying the image claims that South Africa has erected the statue in the picture to signify respect for the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) leader.
The image was also shared by another Facebook user called Daudi Maina Macharia.
However, nothing is said about when or where the statue was erected, neither has the former PM shared any information in this regard on his Facebook or Twitter handles.
A closer look at the image shows that apart from the face, the rest of the statue bears a striking resemblance — including the pose — to one of South Africa’s former president, the late Nelson Mandela.
Additionally, the letters ‘N-D-E-L-A’ can be seen on the building in the background of the image. The original statue is located in Sandton, South Africa and stands in front of the building named Nelson Mandela Square with the name of the building clearly visible.
PesaCheck showed the image to a representative of the South African High Commission in Nairobi, who confirmed that it is doctored.
“We have checked the link you sent us on the statue. This is fake news. The statue they have used is that of Nelson Mandela unveiled in 2004 at the Nelson Mandela Square in Sandton, Johannesburg,” said Charge d’ Affaires, Amanda Mkhwanazi, in a text message.
Ms Mkhwanazi also said that there is no statue of Mr Odinga in South Africa.
PesaCheck has looked into the Facebook post with an image claiming to show a statue of Kenya’s former prime minister, Raila Odinga, erected in South Africa, and finds it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*9msF1iFFv72J-ZGC