URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-claiming-to-show-an-attack-on-ethnic-amharas-in-dera-is-doctored-373ec74401b0
ALTERED: This image claiming to show an attack on ethnic Amharas in Dera is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-12-16T08:56:27.300Z

Listen
Share
This image shared on Facebook claiming to show an attack on ethnic Amharas in Dera is ALTERED.
The Amharic text accompanying the images reads, “The Dera Amhara Identity Restoration Committee has announced that the people of Dera Amhara have been subjected to repeated attacks due to the neglect and political conspiracy of the Oromia regional government. The Dera Amara Identity Restoration Committee, which has written a letter to Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed to rescue them from the ongoing ethnic genocide, pointed out that the people of Shwa Dera are being subjected to repeated raids and killings, as well as looting and evictions due to the neglect and political conspiracy of the Oromia regional government.”
“In addition to this, the Committee said that hundreds of innocent citizens have lost their lives due to the fact that the authorities of the region did not provide an urgent solution when the invasion took place and because they neglected the issue and acted as if they did not see the attack. The committee stated that it has been a year since Dera road was closed by the terrorist OLF Shane and the group opened its own training camp in a place called Jema desert. It added that the region has acted as if it did not see when OLF Shane created a terrorist ground in the zone, and it is causing serious harm to the people,” the post adds.
The post also criticises the zonal leaders for allegedly creating ethnic division among the public instead of finding a permanent solution to the invasion and massacre of Dera residents.
However, as seen here and here, Google reverse image search results established that the claimed image is digitally manipulated by combining two different images.
One of the images was shared on the Addis Standard website on 3 January 2022 in the article titled, “News: Oromia regional state blames ‘radical Amharic speaking armed group’, BPLM, OLA for violence in East Wollega Zone.”
As seen here, the second picture has been online since 2019.
The other two images accompanying the post are of a letter and a poster calling “attention to Dera”.
As seen here and here, media reports indicate that fighting in Dera has affected civilians, but the photo used to advance the claim is altered.
PesaCheck has examined an image shared on Facebook claiming to show an attack on ethnic Amharas in Dera and found it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*GhhV-2RGrHjpMtVG