URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-picture-of-ethiopian-politicians-debretsion-gebremichael-and-getachew-reda-is-88031716f43b
ALTERED: This picture of Ethiopian politicians Debretsion Gebremichael and Getachew Reda is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-09-28T06:53:17.225Z

Listen
Share
The image shared on Facebook purporting to show Ethiopian politicians Debretsion Gebremichael and Getachew Reda is ALTERED.
The picture is accompanied by an Amharic text that states, “Although there has never been a TPLF member who has not been humiliated by the war waged by the TPLF, I am not sure if there are other TPLF members who have been subjected to such a web of humiliation as Getachew Reda and Tsadkan Gebretensae. Getachew Reda has said many things. The man who is praised as the African General once said, ‘The war is over, who are we negotiating with?’ But now they assign him as a ‘negotiator.’ If I were him, I would say show me my grave. After this, how do they dare to look at the eyes of the Tigray people? Until the word “shame” is entered in TPLF’s record, doomsday may come.”
Debretsion is the Tigray region president. Getachew is Debretsion’s advisor and spokesperson of the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF). General Tsadkan Gebretensae is the commander of TPLF forces, a Tigray regional force fighting against Ethiopia’s federal government.
In August 2022, the Tigray External Affairs Office issued a statement expressing readiness for peaceful conflict resolution. Although the Tigray External Affairs Office Twitter account is not verified, Getachew Reda retweeted the statement on his verified timeline on 11 September 2022, authenticating the statement.
In the statement, Getachew and Tsadkan are part of the negotiation team set up by the Tigray government.
However, Google reverse image search results established that the claim image is digitally manipulated and the original image is of different persons.
The original image was shared on this website on 23 December 2015.
As seen here and here, the original picture was published on other websites.
PesaCheck has examined an image shared on Facebook claiming to show politician Debretsion Gebremichael and Getachew Reda and finds it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*KpK577IBwDyar57a