URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-does-not-show-a-chemical-attack-in-ethiopias-tigray-region-fe7fbdd068ce
ALTERED: This image does not show a chemical attack in Ethiopia’s Tigray region | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-07-22T06:43:37.893Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook claiming to show a chemical attack in the conflict-ridden Tigray region, Ethiopia, is ALTERED.
The post, in Amharic and Tigrinya languages, claims that there was a chemical attack on ethnic Tigrayans residing in Tembien. The post identifies the chemical used in the alleged attack as white phosphorus.
“On 13 June 2021, a chemical called white phosphorus was used to attack residents of Tembien,” the post reads. The post is accompanied by a photo that shows an aeroplane presumably dropping the chemical, while victims are seen lying on the ground.
There have been allegations that the Ethiopian government used chemicals on ethnic Tigrayans located in northern parts of Ethiopia.
In the Telegraph’s exclusive report dubbed “Exclusive: Ethiopians suffer horrific burns in suspected white phosphorus attacks”, leading chemical weapons experts said, “the footage is consistent with white phosphorus, which is not considered a chemical weapon but is banned from use against human targets under international law”.
On 23 May 2021, the Ethiopian Ministry of Foreign Affairs released a press statement in which it dismissed the alleged use of chemical weapons in Tigray.
The press statement partly reads, “In this connection, the Ministry would like to categorically reject this allegation. Ethiopia has not employed and will never use such banned munitions because it takes its international obligations under the Chemical Weapons Convention extremely seriously. As a victim of the chemical weapons attack itself, Ethiopia also condemns in the strongest terms the use of chemical weapons by anyone anywhere”.
Although there have been such allegations of white phosphorus use in Tigray, the image accompanying the Facebook claim is altered. The altered image is constructed by combining different images together.
The first image shows an Ethiopian Airlines plane. Yandex image search result reveals that the image was used in 2019.
Google reverse image search results show that the second photo has been used by different media outlets since 2017.
The photo, showing children in Yemen, is captioned, “A girl carries her brother at a camp for people displaced by the war near Sanaa, Yemen,” on the Washington Post’s website. The article is dated December 2017, and the image is credited to Khaled Abdullah of Reuters.
The third image shows the Syrian border town of Kobani after an airstrike on 20 October 2014 and was published in the Jerusalem Post.
PesaCheck has looked into a photo shared on Facebook claiming to show a chemical attack in Tigray, Ethiopia, and finds it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*lYxu4JACS946Eudk