URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-photo-of-nigerian-politician-bola-tinubu-with-joe-biden-at-the-white-house-is-d108b60f91e4
ALTERED: This photo of Nigerian politician Bola Tinubu with Joe Biden at the White House is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-01-16T06:48:00.358Z

Listen
Share
This photo shared on Twitter of Nigeria’s presidential candidate Bola Tinubu with United States President Joe Biden at the White House has been ALTERED.
The photo, also shared here on 30 November 2022, purportedly shows Tinubu, Biden and an unidentified man at the Oval Office, where the US President has been photographed with other leaders, as seen here and here.
The Lagos State Governor, who is an aspirant with the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Party, has in the past been the subject of controversy after an alleged conviction for drug dealing in the US, a claim which fact-checkers debunked.
That controversy has led to speculations that the presidential hopeful had been denied a US visa. APC Presidential Campaign Council spokesperson dismissed claims that their candidate had been denied a visa to the US.
According to this Twitter thread by APC Presidential Campaign Council, Tinubu’s trip was set for 4 December 2022, days after the tweet was posted, and was to begin at Chatham House in London as the West African country gears towards its February 2023 elections.
The Lagos State Governor, who is running on an All Progressives Congress (APC) Party ticket, courted controversy due to an alleged drug dealing conviction leading to speculation that he had been denied a US visa. However, the APC Presidential Campaign Council denied the allegations and clarified that the trip was set for 4 December 2022, days after the tweet was posted.
A keyword search of the meeting using ‘Tinubu meets Biden’ does not bring up any news reports of the alleged meeting. Instead, it brings up debunks dismissing the photo as fake.
Further, a Google reverse image search while cropping out Tinubu and his counterpart from the picture, brings up reports like this one from Biden’s meeting with Iraqi Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi.
In the photo, Biden is holding a white piece of paper and in the same outfit as in the photo shared in the tweet we are fact-checking.
Finally, according to a statement by APC PCC Media & Publicity director Bayo Onanuga, shared by Nigerian media, the photo is fake and part of “the latest in the series of misinformation being dished out by the political opposition”.
PesaCheck has looked into a photo purporting to be of Nigeria’s presidential candidate Bola Tinubu with US President Joe Biden at the White House and found it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*6a2oAt1c980QhQHK