URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-does-not-show-french-president-emmanuel-macron-after-being-slapped-286ab2eb3056
ALTERED: This image does not show French President Emmanuel Macron after being slapped | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-06-25T07:19:56.585Z

Listen
Share
This photo claiming to show French President Emmanuel Macron after being slapped has been ALTERED.
The post further claims that the man who slapped the French president will be set free based on his lawyer’s defence.
“The defense lawyer says that the President disobeyed COVID-19 protocols by doing handshakes and not observing the 1•5 m social distance rule hence the accused reacted to anger and decided to teach their president a lesson. The accused is set to be set free,” the Facebook post claims.
However, a reverse image search shows that the photo was first published by this website on 26 May, 2021, several days before the incident in which Macron was assaulted. In the photo, President Macron did not appear to have any marks on his face. The Facebook post with the claim was published on June 16, 2021 with the impression of a hand across the lower jaw of President Macron’s face.
The claim that 28-year-old Damien Tarel, who was arrested for slapping the president, is set to be free is also false. Tarel will serve four months in jail for slapping the French president across the face.
A court sentenced him to 18 months in jail but 14 of those months were suspended. Tarel explained to the court that he slapped President Macron, who had visited Tain-L’Hermitage in South-East of France, because he stands for “what is rotten in France”.
“I think that Macron represents very neatly the decay of our country. If I had challenged Macron to a duel at sunrise, I doubt he would have responded,” Tarel told the court.
The 28-year-old confessed that the slap was not premeditated but he had thought of throwing an egg or a cream tart at the president several days before. Tarel was arrested together with another man who will be charged with the illegal possession of arms after police found weapons, a copy of Adolf Hitler’s autobiographical manifesto, and symbols of the communist movement at his home.
The incident occurred as President Macron went to greet a small crowd of people after visiting a vocational college. Macron stretched his hand to Tarel, who grabbed it then slapped the French president on the left side of his face.
Just before slapping the French president, Tarel shouted: “down with Macronia,” Reuters reported. Tarel was also heard shouting “Montjoie Saint-Denis”, which was the army’s battle cry when France was still a monarchy. Tarel told the court it was a “patriot’s slogan”.
President Macron has described the incident as an “isolated event” and said violence and hate are a threat to democracy.
PesaCheck has looked into a photo claiming to show French President Emmanuel Macron after being slapped, and finds it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*dV2bW146L_ajv3nC