URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-of-former-kenyan-prime-minister-raila-odinga-purportedly-in-a-state-of-b3b5d9a9af95
ALTERED: This image of former Kenyan Prime Minister Raila Odinga, purportedly in a state of drunkenness, is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-12-20T08:49:24.966Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook purporting to show former Prime Minister Raila Odinga in a drunken state is ALTERED.
In the image Odinga appears to be asleep while holding a bottle of beer in his hands, with two other bottles stuffed in the pockets of his shirt. The bottle in his hand is open, while the others are not.
The Facebook post that accompanies the picture indicates that Odinga was asleep in Kasarani. “Kasarani mtu amelala (Someone is asleep in Kasarani),” the post reads.
The image was posted on Facebook on 10 December 2021, the same day the former PM held the Azimio la Umoja Convention at Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi to declare his presidential bid in 2022.
The same image has been shared here.
However, images and video footage taken from the event show that the ODM leader was wearing a blue Kaunda suit and a cap with the initials of his name, and not the dark grey shirt shown in the photo with the claim.
A Google reverse search reveals that the image has been doctored to include the face of Odinga. Among search results is an article from mulengeranews.com, a publication based in Kampala, Uganda.
The caption reads: “Photo of one of the party after party customers that staff recently took and posted at one of the social media platforms for Martin Owor’s resort business.” The article does not identify the man in the picture.
Another 2016 article by gistmania.com, a Nigerian online news publication, contains the original image and a tongue-in-cheek caption which also does not identify the man in the photo.
PesaCheck has examined the image shared on Facebook purporting to show former Prime Minister Raila Odinga in an intoxicated state, and found it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*gf-h1UyvNIaYHGjT