URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-photo-does-not-show-scenes-from-the-2021-wrc-held-in-naivasha-kenya-ea26a60d98b2
ALTERED: This photo does not show scenes from the 2021 WRC held in Naivasha, Kenya | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-06-29T14:54:44.157Z

Listen
Share
This tweet claiming to show an image of some of the action at the 2021 World Rally Championship (WRC) held in Naivasha, Kenya, has been ALTERED.
In the image, three men draped in Maasai wraps, commonly referred to as shukas, and holding clubs in their hands, are seen seated by the roadside watching an airborne safari rally vehicle with a cloud of dust behind it.
However, a reverse image search on TinEye shows that the photo has been digitally altered.
In the original image, there is no vehicle — just the three men draped in shukas looking out onto the landscape ahead of them.
The same image has been used on the travel website, Adore Africa. The image shows the three men seated on rocks but there is no road in front of them.
A further reverse search, using the keywords “Rally 2021”, reveals the image of the flying car was featured on the Toyota Gazoo racing website. An article on the site says the Toyota Yaris WRC would be making a debut in the 2021 rally championships held in Kenya.
A close look at the image on the post with the claim shows the safari rally vehicle is a Toyota Yaris. The flying vehicle seems to have been added into the image of the three men in Maasai shukas.
After a 19-year hiatus, Kenya held the WRC from 24 June to 27 June 2021, in Naivasha, Nakuru County. Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta officially flagged off the safari rally at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) grounds.
A total of 58 teams participated in the Kenyan WRC. President Kenyatta flagged off the first 10 cars in the rally which consisted of three Kenyans — Carl Tundo, Hamza Anwar, and Mcrae Kimathi. Sobieslaw Zasada, a 91-year-old Polish national and three times winner in the European Rally Championship, was the oldest competitor at the rally.
There were 18 stages of rough dirt roads that traversed the bush, forest, and savannah, in the rally that was won by French Toyota driver Sebastien Ogier and co-driver Julien Ingrassia, ahead of another Toyota driver, Japanese Takamoto Katsuta.
Estonian Ott Tanak came in third in his Hyundai, while Kenya’s Onkar Rai, Karan Patel, and Carl Tundo came in at positions 18, 20, and 22 respectively.
President Kenyatta has announced that Kenya will be hosting the WRC every year until 2026. Kenya acquired the hosting rights from the International Automobile Federation (FIA) and the WRC after years of intense lobbying and preparations.
PesaCheck has looked into a tweet claiming to show an image of some of the action that happened in the 2021 World Rally Championship (WRC) held in Naivasha, Kenya, and finds it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*5MIZ5g34Iw7YVgN_