URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-does-not-show-the-oromo-liberation-army-marching-in-addis-ababa-8a75c87ca3a1
ALTERED: This image does not show the Oromo Liberation Army marching in Addis Ababa | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-11-18T18:30:33.412Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post purporting to show the Oromo Liberation Army (OLA) starting their march towards the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, is ALTERED.
A photo of armed soldiers standing in the back of a military truck with others to the side of it is part of the post.
The Afaan Oromo text in the post claims, “Oromo Liberation Army leader Jaal Marro has ordered the army to control Addis Ababa and the army has started to arrive in Addis Ababa by road”.
However, using Google reverse image search, we traced the Associated Press images website with copyright attributed to AP Photo and Ben Curtis. The original is available for purchase here. The image has been used on The Geneva Solutions website where it was published on 13 July 2021 alongside an article entitled, “UN rights body passes resolution on Ethiopia’s Tigray region”. It is captioned “Ethiopian government soldiers driving on a road to Abi Adi in the Tigray region of northern Ethiopia Tuesday, May 2021”.
The Ethiopian federal government is battling eight armed groups in the country. OLA is one of them, and announced an alliance with the Tigray People’s Liberation Front Tigrayan forces fighting against government forces in the north of the country since November 2020. The alliance has been denounced by the government.
On November 08, 2021, an AFP report quoted Jaal as saying his troops were moving on the capital.
However, the photo in this post does not show the arrival of OLA troops to Addis Ababa.
PesaCheck reviewed an image shared on Facebook purporting to show that the Oromo Liberation Army had begun arriving in Addis Ababa in military trucks and found it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*Jf3VdH7vCdxsaq6d