URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-of-kenyas-deputy-president-in-military-attire-is-doctored-70493b0fc778
ALTERED: This image of Kenya’s deputy president in military attire is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-08-31T08:38:55.020Z

Listen
Share
A Twitter post claiming to show Kenya’s deputy president, William Ruto, in military attire alongside four gun-wielding men is DOCTORED.
The four men in matching military gear have their faces covered by plaid scarfs, colloquially known as arafats in the photo. DP Ruto appears to be holding pieces of paper, most visible to the camera reading: “Fruits for Sale from Turkey”.
The social media account owner captions the image, “This man has a very dark side which at times is reflected when he talks or those around him. I alwys sence dectatorship in him [sic].”
A similar image has also been shared on Twitter, as seen here.
Despite the photo being shared on social media, a reverse image search on Tineye shows Ruto has nothing to do with the original image.
A further search on Google’s reverse image search reveals that the image was used in an article published on the Council on Foreign Relations website. According to the article, the image shows the military spokesman for Al-Shabaab issuing a statement south of Mogadishu and Feisal Omar of Reuters is credited.
A further search on Google using the phrase ‘military spokesman for Al-Shabab issues a statement south of Mogadishu Feisal Omar/Reuters’ leads to an article by Reuters dubbed ‘Somalia’s al shabaab vows huge blast in Kenya’.
In the article, the image showing five men in military gear and faces covered in arafat scarfs, one in the foreground holding papers while four are behind him holding up guns, has been used.
The image caption reads; “Al Shabaab’s military spokesman Sheik Abdul Asis Abu Muscab issues a statement south of capital Mogadishu October 19, 2011”.
PesaCheck has looked into a Twitter post claiming to show Kenya’s Deputy President William Ruto in military attire accompanied by four other men in matching military gear with their faces covered by plaid arafat scarfs and finds it has been ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*bRcv_rgwoU-GAhmz