URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-of-daniel-bekele-posing-with-fano-militia-is-doctored-58e9fba2754c
ALTERED: This image of Daniel Bekele posing with Fano militia is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-11-21T07:58:56.995Z

Listen
Share
This image on Facebook, purportedly of Daniel Bekele, the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission chief commissioner, posing with Fano militia, is ALTERED.
The Amharic text accompanying the picture translates to: “Daniel Bekele has officially joined Fano.”
The claim has also been shared here and here.
Indeed, Google reverse image search results confirmed that the purported picture is digitally altered, and the original image features a different individual.
The original photo was posted on this website two months ago, as indicated on the site. Upon examining the original image, it was revealed that Zemene Kassie’s face was digitally substituted with Daniel’s.
Zemene is one of the Fano leaders currently fighting against the government forces in the Amhara region.
The same picture was also shared on other websites, as seen here and here.
Furthermore, Daniel continued to share posts regarding activities of the EHRC through this verified X (formerly Twitter) account, days after the claim was made. The Amhara region where the Fano militia operates is cut off from the internet.
For instance, this post shows Daniel in Denmark representing the EHRC at a conference. The post was reposted by EHRC. The link to EHRC’s X account is found on their website, confirming its authenticity.
It is noteworthy that no media reports substantiate the claim.
Moreover, Daniel refuted the claim in an email to PesaCheck. The email reads; “It is a complete false story”.
PesaCheck has examined a photo on Facebook purportedly of Daniel Bekele, chief commissioner of the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission posing with Fano Militia, and found it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*1_1Gtq_yMo6QYyYm