URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-of-the-21-july-2022-edition-of-the-standard-newspaper-is-doctored-23ef757da7bb
ALTERED: This image of the 21 July 2022 edition of The Standard newspaper is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-07-28T19:55:12.127Z

Listen
Share
A tweet claiming to show a front cover of The Standard newspaper bearing a headline about political leaders “waiting to be sworn in” has been ALTERED.
The headline on the newspaper front page, dated 21 July 2022, reads; “Are They Just Waiting To Be Sworn In?”
The images of five political leaders are on the cover. The five are Nairobi senatorial aspirant Edwin Sifuna, Bungoma gubernatorial candidate Kenneth Lusaka, Trans-Nzoia gubernatorial aspirant George Natembeya, Nakuru senatorial aspirant Tabitha Karanja and Thika Member of Parliament aspirant David Gakuyo.
Just below the photos is a brief explanation that the aforementioned are destined to clinch the elective seats they are eyeing.
“As the anxiety of the election day draws near, it is almost assured that certain candidates will clinch their elective seats and are just awaiting swearing in. A credible opinion poll shows that the following candidates are headed for certain victory,” the paragraph explains.
Another main article on the newspaper cover is about how teachers are pushing for a 60 per cent pay increase. The newspaper front page also has brief stories about gospel singer Reuben Kigame, Kenyan army, fuel subsidy, and Kenyan athlete Mary Moraa.
But was this the legitimate 21 July 2022 cover of The Standard? We checked.
A keyword search on The Standard Digital’s Facebook page and Twitter account shows that the publication did not share such a newspaper cover on 21 July 2022.
We also reviewed the e-paper section of The Standard website, where the publication keeps an archive of previous and current newspaper editions. The authentic 21 July 2022 edition of The Standard cover had a different headline.
“Inside Uhuru’s deal on ugali,” the headline on the legitimate 21 July 2022 edition of The Standard Newspaper reads.
The image placed next to the main headline is a photo of President Uhuru Kenyatta and a plate of food next to him.
The paragraph just below the headline is also different from what is on the cover we are fact-checking.
“Just days after word leaked on plan to slash cost of maize flour, details of high stake negotiations have emerged as cost of living takes centre stage in campaigns,” the description just below the main headline states.
Other stories on the authentic cover such as the one on teachers pushing for a 60 per cent pay increase and the briefs are similar to those on the fake cover.
We could not find the other newspaper pages, shared with the cover we are fact-checking, on the legitimate edition dated 21 July 2022.
PesaCheck has looked into a tweet claiming to show a front cover of The Standard newspaper bearing a headline about political leaders “waiting to be sworn in” and finds it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*8lvWt3EznkBeZ1tU