URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-these-pictures-claiming-to-show-getachew-reda-are-doctored-218280cd373e
ALTERED: These pictures claiming to show Getachew Reda are doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-09-16T10:34:03.452Z

Listen
Share
These Facebook images claiming to show Getachew Reda, an advisor of Tigray regional president Debretsion Gebremichael the are ALTERED.
The Amharic translation of the text accompanying the picture reads: “TPLF’s theft is not breaking news! It is a group that has exploited Ethiopia as a country, stripped its treasury, killed its youth, and exhausted the hope of the country. The stealing habit of the TPLF is not questionable. But now this incident makes it possible to understand that it is a despicable group that dared to steal a humanitarian organisation at the international level.”
To advance the claim, two combined images, are attached to the post with a text that states; “TPLF’s theft is not breaking news.”
As seen here, here, and here, other Facebook and Twitter users shared similar claims.
In August 2022, the World Food Program (WFP) condemned Tigray forces for looting over half a million litres of fuel belonging to the humanitarian organisation in Mekelle. Tigray forces refuted the allegation saying that they had only taken the fuel they had lent to the United Nations months back.
Google and Yandex reverse image searches showed that the claimed photos are digitally manipulated, and the original images are of a different person.
The first original image was published on this website. The image was shared as part of slides for a video presentation with a headline: “How to Work with USAID. Branding and Marking.”
The same image is on this website.
As seen here, the second photo was also manipulated, and PesaCheck previously debunked it.
The original picture was shared on Facebook with the text “#tdf challenge” by Belay Bekele Weya on 24 August 2021.
The picture was mocking the Tigray Defence Force following the alleged looting of civilian property, including dough. As seen here and here, in August 2021, it was also reported that the Tigray forces looted aid warehouses.
PesaCheck has examined the Facebook images claiming to show Getachew Reda, an advisor to the President of Tigray and finds them to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*Luguff9JbHoTh_4D