URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-tweet-from-president-elect-william-ruto-with-martha-karuas-image-celebrating-newly-12642ed989ad
ALTERED: This tweet from president-elect William Ruto with Martha Karua’s image celebrating newly elected women leaders is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-08-22T11:23:53.814Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with a screenshot allegedly showing a tweet from president-elect William Ruto with Martha Karua’s image celebrating newly elected women leaders is ALTERED.
The screenshot was also shared here and here.
The alleged tweet alongside Karua’s image reads: “Congratulations to all election winners. In particular, we celebrate the many women who have broken barriers to climb the political ladder. Best wishes as you embark on your new responsibilities.”
Kenyans went to the polls on 9 August 2022, with the main contenders for the presidential position being former Prime Minister Raila Odinga and Deputy President (DP) William Ruto.
Martha Karua is Odinga’s running mate. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) had, however, not called the elections at the time the screenshot was sent out.
At least seven of Kenya’s 47 incoming governors are women, with four of them under Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance (UDA). Ruto did congratulate the newly elected women leaders but did not use Karua’s image.
A look through Ruto’s official Twitter account shows that the original tweet, dated 13 August 2022, is as shown in the claim but has no image.
The last statement in the “Hustlers are counting on you” tweet was also left out in the claim.
The hustler reference is a term Ruto has popularised to sell his bottom-up economic model as part of the Kenya Kwanza agenda to grow the economy and eradicate poverty.
On 15 August 2022, IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati declared Ruto the winner of the presidential vote.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with a screenshot allegedly showing a tweet from William Ruto with Martha Karua’s image celebrating newly elected women leaders and finds it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*ZyVFd7qrqUvAeMq3