URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-is-not-an-image-of-a-stabex-filling-station-affixed-on-a-rooftop-341b472d3f80
ALTERED: This is not an image of a Stabex filling station affixed on a rooftop | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-12-13T17:20:51.366Z

Listen
Share
This image, purportedly of a Stabex filling station on a rooftop has been ALTERED.
“STABEX needs to be stopped,” the text accompanying the image reads.
The image depicts a building with a filling station on both the ground floor and the rooftop. The ground floor station has a Chinese name, while the rooftop station is labelled “STABEX.”
To verify if Stabex has a rooftop filling station, PesaCheck performed a reverse image search on the photo. Results showed articles and videos indicating that the image has been altered.
In the original image, the rooftop filling station bears the name “關牛頓能源,” whose English translation is “About Newton Energy”. The rooftop station shares a similar name with the one on the ground floor.
autojosh.com
China Global Television Network (CGTN), identified the location of the building as Yuzhong District of Chongqing City, which is also known as a “magic city” due to its unique architecture on steep terrain.
CGTN clarified that the first filling station is on the first floor, and the second is on the sixth floor. The filling station on the ground floor is beside the Yangtze River, while the rooftop station is on an upper street on the hill connected to Nanqu Road.
As noted by this Nigerian news website, cars park on the middle floors.
Stabex is an independent oil and gas marketing company operating in East and Central Africa, with retail distribution stations in Uganda and Kenya.
The company’s website states it has over 70 retail service stations and eight depots in these countries, supplying over 550 bulk resellers who own fuel stations.
PesaCheck has looked into an image supposedly of a Stabex filling station on a rooftop and finds it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*YboeYpRxm0fUQ7YA