URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-picture-of-prime-minister-abiy-ahmed-with-bodies-laying-on-the-ground-is-doctored-db8277d8a19e
ALTERED: This picture of Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed with bodies laying on the ground is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-10-27T17:12:35.392Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook purporting to show Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed standing with bodies seen in the background is ALTERED.
The post in Amharic translates, “When does the man stop deception and start delivering. Amhara’s blood cries for justice. Amhara’s life cries for justice”.
The image was shared following ethnic conflict reported in East Wollega in October 2021, which has left scores of people from ethnic Oromo and Amhara groups dead and others displaced.
PesaCheck earlier debunked a post claiming to show victims of the ethnic Amhara massacre in Wollega following the aforementioned conflict. The image used in the previously debunked post, showing bodies of the victims of the Somali-Afar interregional forces conflict, is again used in this post. Although the post does not mention when the photo was taken, it appears that the post under question is also claiming ethnic Amharas were killed in the conflict when it says “Amhara’s blood is crying for justice”.
Further, PesaCheck has found out that the picture is doctored.
A reverse image search reveals that the original image shows the victims of the Somali-Afar forces interregional conflict in April 2021, in which many civilians and soldiers were killed. The image shows bodies of victims on the ground with armed men walking around. Abiy does not feature in this image.
The photo of Abiy used in the post was taken when he led a delegation to farmland in Arsi zone in Oromia regional state on 13 October 2021. The image shows the prime minister visiting wheat farmland.
An affiliated state media also reported the visit. The image was featured on the Facebook page by Arsi Zone Agriculture and Irrigation Office with the caption, “Bright Future. Large clusters visit at Lode Hetosa”.
The image showing the bodies of victims of the Somali-Afar interregional forces conflict has been digitally manipulated, and the image of the prime minister added to make the picture used in the claim.
PesaCheck has looked into an image shared on Facebook claiming to show Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, with bodies of victims seen behind him and finds it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*gGzwXnB2QDiUyAtG