URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-photo-of-pastor-paul-mackenzie-at-state-house-nairobi-is-not-authentic-78d5ef19874
ALTERED: This photo of Pastor Paul Mackenzie at State House, Nairobi, is not authentic | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-04-28T16:28:00.296Z

Listen
Share
This photo on Facebook supposedly of Pastor Paul Mackenzie at State House, Nairobi, for a purification service has been ALTERED.
“The Terrorist Pastor Mackenzie was at State House,” the text accompanying the image reads. And the caption asks: “Mackenzie at State House’s purification service?”
In the photo, the face of one person in the crowd is circled in yellow.
We performed a reverse image search to establish whether the person whose face is circled in yellow is Pastor Mackenzie. The search led to an article in The Standard of 25 September 2022 titled, “PHOTOS: Ruto holds special thanksgiving service at State House”.
At the thanksgiving service were evangelicals from across the country. Others in attendance included Kenya Kwanza Alliance luminaries led by President William Ruto, First Lady Rachel Ruto, and Nairobi Governor Johnson Sakaja.
A side-by-side comparison shows that the face circled in yellow is not the same as that in the original photo. The man in the photo we are fact-checking has short hair but the one in the original image is bald-headed.
Pastor Mackenzie is accused of convincing at least 98 people as of Wednesday, 26 April 2023, that starvation is the only way to God, hence their death and burial in shallow mass graves in Shakahola Forest, Kilifi County.
The area has been declared a “disturbed area” and placed under a 30-day dusk-to-dawn curfew by Interior Cabinet Secretary Kithure Kindiki. The pastor, who is in police custody, is set to appear in court on 2 May 2023.
PesaCheck has looked into a photo on Facebook purportedly of Pastor Paul Mackenzie at State House, Nairobi, for a purification service and found it to have been ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/1*mRv9ZQGltB8KeNi-q9LvkA.png