URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-photo-purportedly-showing-protests-against-kenyas-deputy-president-william-ruto-is-9929cb69510c
ALTERED: This photo purportedly showing protests against Kenya’s Deputy President William Ruto is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-02-17T06:53:31.143Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook claiming to show protests against Kenya’s Deputy President William Ruto, is ALTERED.
The photo shows protestors holding a banner with words directed at the deputy president reading, “Ruto! Ruto! Use the energy you have in rejecting BBI to rebuild Kiambaa church”.
The reference to the rebuilding of Kiambaa church relates to the torching of a Kenya Assembly of God (KAG) church which was razed during the 2007/2008 post-election violence, killing at least 28 people who had sought shelter inside.
Two other banners can be seen in the background of the altered photo and both express support for the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) process, which seeks to institute constitutional reforms through a referendum.
The Facebook post itself appears to ridicule the support for Dr Ruto by Kikuyus, a tribe predominantly found in the Central Kenya region; the post suggests the support has been mere mischief — a ploy — that is now revealed by the protests.
However, a reverse image search found that the image does not show anti-Ruto protests and the words on the banners have been changed.
The search results bring up the image published alongside a number of articles, including one by Voice of America (VOA) News published on November 17, 2014.
The article is about a protest march dubbed ‘My Dress My Choice’, which was organised in Nairobi following attacks against women for perceived inappropriate dressing.
According to the article, a video had swirled online showing men undressing a woman they considered to have won a skirt too skimpy, prompting the protesters to take to the streets to call for the offenders to be brought to book. The photo caption states as much and credits the image to Reuters.
Additionally, the words written on the front banner held out by the protesters reads, “Say NO to Violence against WOMEN” and not a message to Dr Ruto as claimed.
The banners held out by protesters in the background also have no initials ‘BBI’ on them; one repeats the message of the lead banner in Swahili and another contains an illegible statistic on violence against women.
PesaCheck has looked into the image shared on Facebook claiming to show protestors against Kenya’s Deputy President William Ruto, and finds it is ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*yP5Vrb05DE2SImNU