URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-has-been-doctored-and-text-added-56f7d0ca6750
ALTERED: This image has been doctored and text added | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-10-15T05:20:47.187Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook photo showing a crowd of demonstrators carrying a banner branded ‘Male Sex Workers Association’ and claiming that “Ruto” supports their work is ALTERED.
The banner held by the demonstrators bears an image resembling the trademark cap of Kenya’s Deputy President William Ruto and the words, “Ruto supports our hustle”.
The deputy president has declared his interest in running for president in the 2022 elections and is a self-branded “hustler” — a tag he uses to identify with the struggling electorate, many of whom have no formal employment.
The DP’s campaigns have seen him support youth, women and other disadvantaged populations to get into income-earning in line with his slogan “every hustle matters”.
However, a reverse image search shows that the photo is not recent and some of the text on the banner is fabricated.
The original image was seen online as early as January 5, 2019, and the banner identifies the group of demonstrators as male sex workers from Kisumu.
Part of the text on the banner reads, “Advocating for rights of sex workers from Western Kenya region. Let our voice be heard.”
A Facebook post in which the original photo appears is dated January 25, 2019 and reads “Male Sex Workers Demand for Respect”.
The word Kisumu on the original photo has, evidently, been erased and replaced with the image of a cap in colours of the Kenyan flag resembling the headgear that has become DP Ruto’s trademark. The text “Ruto supports our hustle” has been added to the bottom right of the banner.
A week ago, PesaCheck debunked a similar claim about a photo in which a banner was doctored to show that the Kenya Sex Workers Association (KESWA) has endorsed the deputy president’s 2022 presidential bid.
PesaCheck has looked into a photo claiming to show male sex workers with a banner reading in part “Ruto supports our hustle” and finds it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*P1FX3poBa-SRdw9Q