URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-does-not-show-kenyan-politician-rigathi-gachagua-in-a-family-photo-of-the-late-f1dd430d7ae9
ALTERED: This image does not show Kenyan politician Rigathi Gachagua in a family photo of the late former President Moi | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-06-06T14:36:11.268Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook claiming to show the Kenya Kwanza presidential running mate Rigathi Gachagua, in a family photo of the late President Daniel Moi is ALTERED.
The image, dated 1966, shows the Member of Parliament for Mathira Constituency pictured as a kid among other family members of the late former president.
The caption reads, “Moi’s Family (1966) (from right to left) Jonathan Kipkemboi, Jennifer Chemutai, John Mark, Doris Chepkorir, Gideon Kipsielei, Rigathi Kiprono, and Raymond Kiprono.”
Other social media posts such as this one suggest that Gachagua is the late President Moi’s relative.
A reverse image search brings up a tweet shared by Kenyan Facts on 13 February 2015.
Another internet search brings up a blog post by kenyapostcardsandkenyaphotos containing the same image.
Both images appear to be newspaper cuttings but do not indicate from which publication they were taken.
Close scrutiny of both images reveals a number of digital alterations in the image in question. The first is that the image in question has been flipped to show the subjects in the image from Right to Left. The original image shows the subjects of the image from Left to Right.
The second observation is that the image has been digitally doctored to include Gachagua’s face on the kid highlighted in the altered image. Additionally, the original caption shows that the child’s name is Philip Kipchirchir and not Gachagua.
Kipchirchir is now a retired major in the Kenya Defence Force, according to an article by Kenyans.co.ke.
Further, the caption indicates that the image was taken in 1967 and not 1966 as claimed.
PesaCheck showed the image to Gachagua, who dismissed it via a WhatsApp text.
“It’s nonsense. Not worth my comment,” he wrote.
PesaCheck has examined the image shared on Facebook claiming to show the Kenya Kwanza presidential running mate Rigathi Gachagua, in a family photo of the late President Daniel Moi, and found it to be ALTERED.
Update: Rigathi Gachagua’s title in this article was updated to Kenya Kwanza presidential running mate.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*ilCKfBeg_e8FTLok