URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-showing-the-front-page-of-the-saturday-standard-january-30-2021-edition-is-c04480b3ecc8
ALTERED: This image, showing the front page of the Saturday Standard, January 30, 2021 edition, is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-02-04T08:07:49.815Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image of the front page of the January 30, 2021, edition of the Saturday Standard, and with a lead story titled ‘Uhuru Storms Back!’ is ALTERED.
The kicker describes the jubilant reception President Uhuru Kenyatta received at Sagana State Lodge, much to the surprise of his critics who believed his popularity had waned in the Mount Kenya region.
The event at the State Lodge, which marked the highlight of President Kenyatta’s tour of the region, saw him meet political leaders to drum up support for the constitutional amendment bill in support of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI).
The kicker also directs readers to page 5 of the publication for the full story from the event. A head shot of President Kenyatta sums up the teaser to the lead story.
However, the lead story of the legitimate front page, which is shared officially by the media house, is about the acting chief justice, Philomena Mwilu, and not President Kenyatta as claimed.
The story reports the judicial quandary after Meru High Court Justice Patrick Otieno issued a ruling restraining Ms Mwilu’s continued occupation of the office of deputy chief justice, judge of the Supreme Court, member of the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) and Judiciary Ombudsperson, until a determination of a case against her.
The publication also put out an alert warning its readers against falling for the doctored front page. “Beware of agents of fake news,” reads the warning.
PesaCheck has looked into the image of the front page of the January 30, 2021, edition of the Saturday Standard, with a lead story titled ‘Uhuru Storms Back!’, and finds it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*ysUYi2EO0pt-6mUG