URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-of-ethiopian-musician-tariku-gankisi-is-doctored-3515173ec2e9
ALTERED: This image of Ethiopian musician Tariku Gankisi is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-11-18T17:20:27.103Z

Listen
Share
This image shared on Facebook claiming to show police arresting Ethiopian musician Tariku Gankisi is ALTERED.
The post in Amharic translates as “CNN reported that Artist Tarkiu Gankisi has been arrested due to the comment he made …”. The post is accompanied by an image that shows two police officers arresting the musician Tariku Gankisi.
The post which was shared on Facebook on 7 November 2021 carries a fake CNN station identity and a graphic that reads, “Artist Tariku [sic] arrested in Addis.”
Tariku Gankisi is a renowned Ethiopian musician. His song Dishta Gina, released in April 2021, has got over 21 million views on YouTube and he also released a remix of the song made in collaboration with Senegalese-American musician Akon in September 2021.
On 7 November 2021, Tariku called for peace and reconciliation in Ethiopia in front of higher government officials and protesters, at a rally organized in Addis Ababa against Tigray rebel forces.
“Enough with fighting; enough with bloodshed; let’s give peace a chance,” Tariku said. “The youth should no more go to the war fronts; let the elders go holding a fresh grass and ask for reconciliation,” Tariku added.
The post that claims to show the image of Tariku Gankisi being arrested due to the comment he made was shared on Facebook against these events.
However, PesaCheck found that the post is misleading.
A reverse image search on TinEye shows that the image has been digitally manipulated and used in multiple stories since 2008 to show the same two US police officers arresting different individuals at different times.
Similar digitally manipulated images were shared claiming to show the arrests of the former US President Gorege W. Bush and the Republican party strategist Karl Rove.
It appears that the image in question has been digitally manipulated using the image of Karl Rover and that of musician Tariku Gankisi to create the claim.
Moreover, a search of the CNN website using multiple search terms found that the broadcaster did not report the arrest of musician Tariku Gankisi as claimed by the post.
PesaCheck has investigated an image shared on Facebook claiming to show Ethiopian musician Tariku Gankisi’s arrest and finds it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*npngCADnbQiZZ16v