URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-the-banner-satan-loves-kamala-on-this-image-is-doctored-62839b115765
ALTERED: The banner “Satan loves Kamala” on this image is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-11-13T15:23:33.818Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook claiming to show participants in a gay pride parade holding a banner with the words “Satan loves Kamala”, is ALTERED.
The post merges two photos from LGBTQ pride marches; the image on the top shows United States Vice President-Elect Kamala Harris while the one below shows participants holding the banner as they march.
The post accompanying the images reads “Your Kamala! Gross,” suggesting disapproval of the cause being championed by Ms Harris and the participants in the parade.
A Google reverse image search of the photo on top brings up several similar images, one of them credited to Getty Images photographer Justin Sullivan. The caption says that the photo shows Ms Harris participating in San Francisco’s annual Pride Parade on June 30, 2019.
Ms Harris, then a Democratic Party’s presidential candidate, is photographed with her husband, Douglas Emhoff, as they wave to the crowd atop a car. The caption also says the California senator spent the weekend in the San Francisco Bay Area, where she attended a fundraiser and the annual SF Pride Parade.
A Google reverse image search of the image at the bottom brings up images taken during the 2016 edition of the LGBTQ+ pride parade in Toronto, Canada.
The photograph is published by dailykos.com, a group blog and internet forum focused on centre-left politics, alongside other photos of the July 3, 2016 event. It is accompanied by a caption “Hell, even the Satan worshippers showed up. Pun intended.”
The photos are attributed to the publication’s director of community, Neeta Lind, aka navajo. However, it does not bear the name Kamala, indicating that the image in question was doctored to include the name of the US vice president-elect.
PesaCheck has looked into the image shared on Facebook claiming to show participants in a gay pride march holding a banner with the words “Satan loves Kamala”, and finds it to be a HOAX.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*67WvQFnqKq3f4Ctb