URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-of-the-saturday-standard-november-14-2020-edition-is-doctored-f835ddd588af
ALTERED: This image of the Saturday Standard November 14, 2020 edition is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-11-17T07:03:38.150Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image of the front-page headline in the Saturday Standard claiming that lawyer Paul Gicheru has told the International Criminal Court (ICC) that he knows who killed former Cabinet Minister Mutula Kilonzo, is ALTERED.
The newspaper in the altered image carries a sensational lead story saying that, in testimony to the ICC, Mr Gicheru claimed that Deputy President William Ruto ‘eliminated’ the late Mr Kilonzo.
Mr Ruto has previously faced charges of crimes against humanity at the ICC alongside President Uhuru Kenyatta, former Head of Public Service Francis Muthaura and radio presenter Joshua arap Sang. None of the cases has been successfully prosecuted.
The story — purportedly from the Saturday Standard, November 14, 2020, edition — alleges that the murder was motivated by the decision by the former senator for Makueni to write to the ICC, volunteering evidence on the role Dr Ruto played in the Kiambaa Church massacre during the 2007/08 post-election violence.
Images of Dr Ruto, the late Mr Kilonzo and Mr Gicheru are featured on the cover, while the Facebook post itself castigates the DP for the murder.
Mr Kilonzo was found dead at his Maanzoni home in Machakos County on April 27, 2013, a month after being elected senator.
The circumstances surrounding his death have remained a controversial issue after an autopsy conducted by the government pathologist was challenged by his son, Mutula Kilonzo Jnr, who went on to be elected senator of Makueni.
However, in a Facebook post, the Standard published both the altered front page and the legitimate front page, labelling the former as fake.
The lead story carried in the legitimate paper is about the decision by the Public Service Commission to withdraw the powers of Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha to manage the human resource functions of the ministry.
PesaCheck has looked into the front page of the November 14 edition of the Saturday Standard claiming that lawyer Paul Gicheru told the International Criminal Court (ICC) he knows who killed former Cabinet Minister Mutula Kilonzo, and finds it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*QWs-QYpkFkU2t3Sm