URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-mohamed-salah-and-two-others-are-not-wearing-t-shirts-branded-with-images-of-hachalu-9c94388bde9b
ALTERED: Mohamed Salah and two others are not wearing t-shirts branded with images of Hachalu Hundessa and Jawar Mohammed | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-07-13T19:13:57.353Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook showing Liverpool footballer Mohamed Salah and two other subjects wearing t-shirts branded with pictures of artist Hachalu and politician Jawar Mohammed is ALTERED.
The image is accompanied by a text in Afaan Oromo saying; “It’s seen that Mohammed Salah wore the t-shirt of Hachalu and Jawar. It was reported that Mohammed Salah wore T-shirts of Jawar and Hachalu. If you want to read the reason why Mohammed Salah wore the t-shirt of Jawar and Hachalu use the below link.”
Mohamed Salah is an Egyptian professional footballer who plays for Premier League club Liverpool and captains the Pharaohs — the Egypt national team.
Hachalu was an ethnic Oromo musician, who was assassinated in a suburb of the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, on 29 June 2020, while Jawar is the vice-chairman of the Oromo Federalist Congress (OFC) political party.
However, the link attached to the claim leads to a DW Blog which is unrelated to the Facebook post. It redirects to an Afaan Oromo article titled “Ethiopian and Sudanese troops are fighting”.
A Google reverse image search, however, reveals that the graphics on the t-shirts worn by the footballer and the two individuals in the photo are doctored.
The original image was uploaded on Salah’s official Instagram account on 2 June 2021. The footballer, together with the two subjects photographed, are wearing t-shirts with different images.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with an image claiming to show football player Mohamed Salah and two other people wearing t-shirts containing pictures of artist Hachalu and Jawar Mohammed and finds it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*em9ONUH8ZNSNygyr