URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-of-oromo-artists-in-military-uniform-is-doctored-4e1eacfb3473
ALTERED: This image of Oromo artists in military uniform is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-09-28T07:13:51.387Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook claiming to show three Oromo artists in military uniform is ALTERED.
The post in Afaan Oromo and shared on Facebook on 9 September 2022, reads in part: “We have gone to provide national service on Free Service day on Pagume 4. Our country will never disintegrate.”
The post also advises users to follow the attached link for further information.
An image of three people in military uniform and holding weapons accompanies the post.
Pagume is the 13th month and has only five days, becoming six days after every four years, in a transition month from the old year to New Year in Ethiopia’s calendar. The Ethiopian government announced the fourth day of Pagume as “Service Day’” to encourage citizens to provide free service across the country.
The post refers to this free service day.
However, PesaCheck has found out that the image of the three Oromo artists attached to the post is doctored.
Google reverse image search results established that the original image is of Ethiopian soldiers in Mekelle, the capital of the Tigray region, in 2021.
The image was taken by Anadolu Agency photographer Minasse Wondimu Hailu on 7 March 2021. It shows Ethiopian soldiers on patrol in a street in Mekelle after the northern Ethiopian city was recaptured.
The original image has been digitally manipulated and the heads of three famous Oromo artists (from left to right) Taadele Gemechu, Jambo Jote, and Yosen Getahun added to it, to create the claim.
Moreover, the attached link does not contain information about the claimed service provided by the three artists. The link leads to an article advertising an application used for daily routine planning.
PesaCheck has investigated an image shared on Facebook claiming to show three Oromo artists in military uniform and finds it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*BFXef3anUsBOzWOj