URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-showing-pyramids-in-egypt-flooded-with-colours-of-the-palestinian-flag-is-664697e6a819
ALTERED: This image showing pyramids in Egypt flooded with colours of the Palestinian flag is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-05-31T12:21:36.258Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook claiming to show a display of Palestine flags on Egyptian pyramids is ALTERED.
The image, which appears to have been taken at night, shows a panoramic view of the Great Sphinx of Giza, with a projected picture of the said flags on pyramids in the background.
The text reads, “Six rockets were launched from Lebanon towards northern Israel, but all of them landed within Lebanese territory. This happens as Egypt display the Palestine flag on the pyramids”.
In late May 2021, six rockets were launched towards Israel but fell into the Lebanese border. There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the rocket fire. Israel military said it responded to the incident with artillery fire.
Egypt brokered a ceasefire deal between Israel and Palestine, following one of the deadliest confrontations between the two warring neighbours in recent times.
However, the claim that the Egyptian pyramids were lit with Palestine flags, as a show of solidarity, is false.
A reverse image search of the photos used in the claim brings up a number of fact-check articles that conclude that the image has been doctored.
Among the search results, is a listing on Musement.com, an online platform for tours, museums, shows and art events. An image featured in the promotion for the @Cairo Pyramids Night Sound and Light Show with Nile Dinner Cruise” is taken from the same angle as the one shared in the claim on Facebook.
The original photo, as seen below, is not flooded with the colours of the Palestinian flag.
Additionally, the same image has been posted on Wikimedia Commons, with the description indicating that the photo was captured by Ayah Ahmed on August 18, 2014.
PesaCheck has looked into the image shared on Facebook claiming to show a display of Palestine flags on the Egyptian pyramids, and finds it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*RoAlENPVt8kZZLl7