URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-of-ethiopian-politician-getachew-reda-is-doctored-7f5f1c189915
ALTERED: This image of Ethiopian politician Getachew Reda is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-05-11T13:42:47.971Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook claiming to show Getachew Reda, a former Tigray region top official, being arrested in Kola Tembien, Ethiopia is ALTERED.
The image shows a man in handcuffs being escorted down a flight of stairs by military officers.
The post in the Amharic language reads: “Getachew Reda is arrested in Kola Tembien, where he was sitting in a cave together with his collaborators. Getachew Reda, who is the spokesperson of the Junta, and a member of the traitor TPLF, has surrendered to Ethiopian National Defense Force after heavy fighting that saw all his guards killed. Information indicates that the remaining members of Junta and the traitor group shall be arrested in the next few days”.
The Ethiopian National Defense Force (ENDF) has conducted operations in the Tigray region that have led to the killing or arrest of some Tigray People Liberation Front (TPLF) leaders.
Mr Getachew is among the TPLF leaders whom the Ethiopian government issued arrest warrants for in November 2020.
He was last active on Twitter, where he has a verified account, in March 2021. In April 2021, the Al Jazeera UpFront programme interviewed the politician by telephone. Getachew spoke from an undisclosed location.
Kola Tembien, the location mentioned in the claim, is one of the districts in the Tigray region of Ethiopia.
Nonetheless, a Google reverse image search reveals that the picture purporting to show Getachew’s arrest is doctored. The original photo is of Tom Byabagamba, a former security chief in Rwanda. The photo dates back to November 2020, when the security chief was arrested for stealing a mobile phone. He was later sentenced to three years in jail.
The image has featured in different news articles as seen here and here. The doctored image has replaced the former security chief’s head with Getachew’s.
This article on BBC’s Afaan Oromo website that reports Mr Byabagamba’s plight, carries the image in question with the title: “The former security chief of Rwanda sentenced to three years in prison for stealing a mobile phone”.
The original photo was also used in another false claim in the past, alleging TPLF leaders were arrested in Mekelle, Ethiopia, and which PesaCheck debunked as false.
Similarly, PesaCheck also debunked another similar post in the past, claiming to show a picture of that TPLF leaders Debretsion and Getachew died in a well.
PesaCheck has looked into an image shared on Facebook claiming to show Getachew Reda, a former leader of the Tigray region, being arrested in Kola Tembien, Ethiopia, and finds it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*KjXJQWSma0IGrLxQ