URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-of-the-standard-newspaper-april-17-2021-edition-is-doctored-35f50f4884b2
ALTERED: This image of The Standard newspaper April 17, 2021 edition is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-04-22T13:24:18.468Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook claiming to be a front page of the April 17, 2021 edition of the Saturday Standard is ALTERED.
The lead story in the purported front page alleges that allies of Wiper Democratic Movement leader Kalonzo Musyoka, and former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama, held a night-long meeting.
The front cover splash reads, “Muthama, Kalonzo allies in night long meeting”. Alongside the headline are images of the former vice president and Mr Muthama.
Under the headline is a summary of the story, terming the move by Mr Muthama to reach out to the Wiper party leader as ‘unprecedented’, after the fortunes of the former senator’s new party appeared to be ‘alarmingly dwindling’.
Mr Muthama is the chairman of the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party, which is perceived to be allied to Deputy President William Ruto.
The UDA fielded a candidate — Urbanas Ngengele — in the March 18, 2021, Machakos County senatorial by-election, who lost to Wiper’s Agnes Kavindu.
The image has been shared by several social media users, including here, and here.
However, the Standard Digital’s official Facebook and Twitter pages published on the said date reveal that the cover image is fake.
The lead story of the legitimate cover page posted by the publication on April 17, 2021, on its official social media pages is about the top candidates in the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) 2020 exams. The images on the cover are of the six top KCPE candidates and not Mr Muthama and Mr Musyoka, as claimed.
Other stories highlighted on the fake front cover are similar to those in the legitimate Saturday Standard paper.
In a tweet on April 17, 2021, Mr Muthama dismissed the fake front cover, calling it the work of deceptive people.
PesaCheck has looked into the image shared on Facebook allegedly showing the front page of the April 17, 2021 edition of the Saturday Standard newspaper and claiming that allies of Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka, and former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama, held a night-long meeting, and finds it is ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*XdDT-qKJ8tVORkrs