URL: https://pesacheck.org/altered-this-image-claiming-to-show-raila-odinga-wearing-a-uda-branded-t-shirt-is-doctored-b8578e01d9c8
ALTERED: This image claiming to show Raila Odinga wearing a UDA-branded T-shirt is doctored | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-07-29T19:56:20.756Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook claiming to show former Prime Minister, Raila Odinga, wearing a T-shirt branded with the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) logo is ALTERED.
The image shows Odinga wearing a white hat and T-shirt, both branded with the UDA logo. UDA is the party under which Deputy President William Ruto is vying for president in the 9 August 2022 general elections. Conversely, Odinga is vying under the Azimio la Umoja — One Kenya alliance.
A watermark on the image is not legible, indicating that the quality levels in the image have reduced, thus highlighting possible digital alterations. PesaCheck ran the image through Fotoforensics which confirmed that the image had been altered.
A reverse image search returns a tweet containing the original image which shows Odinga wearing a Kip Keino-branded T-shirt. This time around the image is sharp and the watermark clearly reads, “Nedyken” a photography service owned by Kennedy Amungo.
Amungo told PesaCheck in a phone interview that he captured the image during the Kip Keino Classics, a one-day-meet athletics championship event.
The event took place at the Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi, Kenya, on 7 May 2022, the day Amungo also shared the image on his Facebook page. The T-shirt does not contain the UDA branding as claimed and the hat is plain white.
Odinga also shared other images of himself attending the Kipkeino Classics 2022 on his Facebook page where he is seen wearing a similar white shirt and hat.
PesaCheck has examined the image of a Facebook post claiming to show former Prime Minister Raila Odinga wearing a T-shirt branded with United Democratic Alliance (UDA) logo, and found it to be ALTERED.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*odLt2T512iMzyiD1