URL: https://factly.in/an-altered-image-shared-as-a-picture-of-joe-biden-touching-volodymyr-zelenskyys-posterior-during-their-recent-meeting-at-the-white-house
Edited image shared as a picture of Joe Biden grabbing Volodymyr Zelenskyy by his posterior - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-12-23T08:31:53+00:00
In the wake of Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy’s visit to Washington this week, a photo is being circulated on social media claiming it to be a picture of US President Joe Biden grabbing Volodymyr Zelenskyy by his posterior while posing for a photo at the White House. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of Joe Biden grabbing Volodymyr Zelenskyy by his posterior during the recent meeting at the White House.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is an edited one. The original photo tweeted by the US First Lady Jill Biden shows Joe Biden placing his hand on Volodymyr Zelenskyy’s back. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found to be tweeted by the US First Lady Jill Biden on 22 December 2022. The original photo shared by Jill Biden does not show Joe Biden grabbing Volodymyr Zelenskyy by his posterior while posing for a picture.
President Zelenskyy, we hope you take our love and support back to Olena and your children, and all the families of Ukraine. 💕 pic.twitter.com/z1uqAAl8B8
A comparison of the original image and the image shared in the post can be seen below.
Several news websites published videos showing US President Joe Biden and his wife Jill Biden receiving Volodymyr Zelenskyy at the White House. They can be seen here and here. The visuals in these videos also do not show Joe Biden grabbing Volodymyr Zelenskyy by his posterior. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the image shared in the post is an edited one.
To sum it up, an edited image is shared as the picture of Joe Biden grabbing Volodymyr Zelenskyy by his posterior during their recent meeting at the White House.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/12/Joe-Biden-touching-posterior-of-Zelensky-Claim.jpg