URL: https://factly.in/an-image-of-a-pedestrian-bridge-in-chinas-kunming-city-is-shared-as-that-from-gorakhpur-in-india
An image of a pedestrian bridge in China’s Kunming city is shared as that from Gorakhpur in India - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-08-21T08:56:44+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it is a picture of a pedestrian flyover constructed over a busy junction in Gorakhpur city of Uttar Pradesh. Many other Facebook users also shared the photo mentioning the pedestrian bridge is from India. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Image of a pedestrian flyover constructed in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh.
Fact: The image shared in the post shows a pedestrian bridge constructed in Kunming City in Yunnan province of China. The photo was taken in November 2009. The photo does not show a pedestrian bridge in Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur or any other city in India. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.  
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the same photo was found to be published by the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) on Flicker in April 2011. ITDP published the image describing it as a pedestrian bridge located in Kunming City in China. The description provided below the photo stated that the photo was taken on 28 November 2009.
The same image was published on the Alamy website with the description, “Street view of Kunming city“. Several websites and image-sharing sites too confirmed that the viral picture was from Kunming City in Yunnan province of China. A few other pictures of pedestrian bridges in Kunming City can be seen here and here.
Many pedestrian foot-over bridges are constructed over busy streets in Gujarat, Telangana, and other parts of the country. But the photo shared in the post does not show a pedestrian flyover in Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur or any other city in India.
To sum it up, an image of a pedestrian bridge in China’s Kunming city is shared as the picture of a pedestrian flyover in Gorakhpur city in India.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/08/Pedestrian-flyover-constructed-on-a-busy-street-in-UPs-Gorakhpur-Claim.jpg