URL: https://factly.in/an-old-unrelated-image-is-shared-as-toddler-injured-during-the-cab-protests-by-muslims-in-west-bengal
An Old & Unrelated image is shared as ‘toddler injured during the CAB protests by Muslims in West Bengal’ - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-12-18T11:55:38+00:00
A post with an image is being widely shared on Facebook with the claim that it shows a toddler travelling by train injured during the CAB protests by Muslims in West Bengal. Let’s analyze the authenticity of the claim in the post.
Claim: Image of a toddler travelling by train injured during the Citizenship Amendment Bill (CAB) protests by Muslims in West Bengal.
Fact: On social media, the image in the post is making rounds from at least November 2016. So, it has nothing to do with the recent Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019 protests in West Bengal. Hence, the claim is FALSE.    
Citizenship Amendment Bill (CAB) seeks to provide Indian citizenship to specific religious groups facing religious persecution in Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Afghanistan. The bill has been passed by both the houses in Parliament and has become the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019.
When the image in the post is subjected to reverse image search technique, many search results of it were obtained. From those search results, it was found that the image was making rounds on social media with various versions at least since 14 November 2016. Those versions can be seen here, here and here. But information from no credible source was found that authenticates any of those versions. As the image was found to exist on social media platforms at least since 14 November 2016, it can be ascertained that it has nothing to do with the recent Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019 protests in West Bengal.
Earlier, when another post went viral claiming a child to have been injured during the CAB protests in West Bengal, ‘FACTLY’ has debunked it and the article can be read here.
To conclude, an old image is being shared as a ‘toddler injured during the CAB protests by Muslims in West Bengal’.
Did you watch our new Episode of the DECODE series?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/12/Toddler-injured-during-CAB-protests-FB-post-1024x671.jpg