URL: https://factly.in/an-old-photo-from-gujarat-falsely-shared-as-the-crowd-at-up-cm-yogi-adityanaths-meeting-in-kerala
An old photo from Gujarat falsely shared as the crowd at UP CM Yogi Adityanath’s meeting in Kerala. - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-02-22T07:18:03+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media with a claim that it shows the crowd who came to listen to UP CM Yogi Adityanath in Kerala as he flagged off BJP’s ‘Vijaya Yatra’ on Sunday. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of the crowd at UP CM Yogi Adityanath’s meeting in Kerala on Sunday.  
Fact: The posted photo is not related to Yogi Adityanath’s meeting in Kerala. The photo was taken in Gujarat when BJP workers formed a human party flag to mark the occasion of BJP Foundation Day in 2015. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When the photo was run through Yandex Reverse Image Search, the same picture was found in an article published by ‘The Indian Express’ in April 2015. The description of the photo reads – ‘More than 25,000 people form BJP flag as Chief Minister Anandiben Patel reads out the party’s “Panch Nishtha pledge” on its 35th foundation day, in Dahod on Monday. (Source: Express Photo by Bhupendra Rana)’.
The video related to the event in 2015 can be seen here. Also, PM Modi has tweeted a similar image on 06 April 2015. So, the photo is related to an event that happened in Gujarat in 2015.
An innovative way to mark BJP's 'Sthapana Diwas.' Congrats to the Karyakartas. http://t.co/DlxyrMzbX8 pic.twitter.com/HXmPnE5Eob
The actual visuals related to the crowd at Yogi Adityanath’s meeting in Kerala on Sunday can be seen here and here.
യോഗിയെ ശ്രവികാനായി കാസർഗോട്ട് തടിച്ചുകൂടിയ പ്രവർത്തകർ  💪#KeralaVijayaYatra#KeralaWelcomesYogiJi pic.twitter.com/ksZliKiOEZ
To sum it up, an old photo from Gujarat falsely shared as the crowd at UP CM Yogi Adityanath’s meeting in Kerala.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/02/Crowd-at-Yogis-Kerala-meeting-FB-Post.jpg