URL: https://factly.in/an-old-and-unrelated-image-featuring-an-elderly-man-is-falsely-connected-to-the-recent-uttarakhand-tunnel-collapse
An old and unrelated image featuring an elderly man is falsely connected to the recent Uttarakhand tunnel collapse - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-12-01T08:08:35+00:00
An image of a man wearing a miner’s helmet and sitting is being shared on social media, claiming he is one of the workers trapped inside the recently collapsed Silkyara tunnel in Uttarakhand. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: The image shows one of the workers trapped inside the recently collapsed Silkyara tunnel in Uttarakhand
Fact: This image has been circulating since 2019 on various social media platforms. However, none of the sources provided information about the location or gave any context for the image shared. Since the image predates the recently collapsed Silkyara tunnel incident in Uttarakhand, the claim made in the post is False.
On performing a reverse image search of the viral image, it was discovered that the image has been circulating since 2019. The earliest post uploaded the image with the caption, “The most painful picture. A tale of forty years of impeachment war.”
Another post, captioned “hard-working and oppressed father,” was discovered to have been shared in 2020. The same image was later posted on TikTok in 2022 without any accompanying caption. This is now shared in connection with the recent incident where a part of the Silkyara tunnel in Uttarkashi of Uttarakhand collapsed on 12 November 2023, leading to rescue operations and evacuation of all the workers trapped in the tunnel.
Despite the circulation of this image on various social media platforms, none of the posts provided information about the location or gave any context for the image shared. However, it is clear that the image is old and has nothing to do with tunnel collapse incident.
To sum up, an old and unrelated image featuring an elderly man is falsely connected to the recent Uttarakhand tunnel collapse. 

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/12/Image-of-rescued-worker-from-Uttarakhand-tunnel-Claim.png