URL: https://factly.in/an-old-photo-of-muslims-praying-in-front-of-the-us-capitol-is-being-shared-as-a-recent-one
An old photo of Muslims praying in front of the US Capitol is being shared as a recent one - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-01-25T12:20:38+00:00
A photo of thousands of Muslims offering prayers in front of the US Capitol is being shared on social media claiming it as the picture of new America, under the Governance of new US President Joe Biden. In the wake of recent attacks on the US Capitol, this photo going viral on social media. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Thousands of Muslims offered prayers in front of the US Capitol after Joe Biden became the US President.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is an old one. On 25 September 2009, thousands of Muslims gathered in front of the US Capitol building to offer prayers during the ‘Islam on Capitol Hill 2009’ event. This photo has nothing to do with the new United Stated  President Joe Biden. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found published on the ‘Getty’ images website. In the description of the photo, it is mentioned that thousands of Muslims gathered for the ‘Islam on Capitol Hill 2009’ event held on 25 September 2009 in Washington, DC.
When searched for other reliable sources using these keywords, we found a similar image in an article published by ‘Vox’ news. In the article, it is reported that thousands of Muslims offered prayers during the “Islam on Capitol Hill 2009” event held at the West Front lawn of the US Capitol on 25 September 2009. Reporting the same, few other news websites shared the same photo. They can be seen here and here.
‘CNN’ also published an article about the ‘Islam on Capitol Hill 2009’ event held in front of the US Capitol on 25 September 2009. ‘VOA Urdu’ news channel published a video on their YouTube channel, reporting the ‘Islam on Capitol Hill 2009’ held in Washington DC. We can see similar visuals of thousands of Muslims praying in front of the US Capitol building in the video. Other news articles published on the ‘Islam on Capitol Hill 2009’ event can be seen here and here. From all these pieces of evidence, it is concluded that the photo shared in the post is an old one and has nothing to do with the US new President Joe Biden.
To sum it up, an old photo of Muslims praying in front of the US Capitol building is being shared as the recent picture of America after Joe Biden became the  US President.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/01/Islam-Prayers-at-US-Capitol-Claim.jpg