URL: https://factly.in/an-old-video-is-being-falsely-shared-as-hindu-gods-and-goddesses-photos-burnt-in-the-anti-caa-protests
An old video is being falsely shared as “Hindu gods and goddesses’ photos burnt in the anti-CAA protests” - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-01-02T11:56:54+00:00
A video is being shared widely on social media with a claim that the photos of Hindu gods and goddesses were burnt during the anti-CAA protests. Let’s analyze the claim made in the post. 
Claim: Photos of Hindu gods and goddesses were burnt during the anti-CAA protests. 
Fact: It is an old video. The same video was found to be in circulation on the internet from August-2018. So, the video is not related to the recent anti-CAA protests. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.    
A tweet with the same video and a similar claim was also re-tweeted (archived) by Sambit Patra (National Spokesperson of BJP).
This video is shocking …how can any protest have a right to defile the tenets of Hinduism ..who gives them the right to burn the pictures of Hindu Gods & Goddesses ..why should any protest be an Anti-Hindu protest??Is this is what the Congress & Communists promote??#Shame https://t.co/9rn2gIwQ9T
When searched with the keywords on Facebook, a similar video (extended version) was found to be uploaded by a user in August-2018. The video (archived) had the following description – “*Young Ambedkarites burning portraits of Hindu Gods in Ashokpuram MYSORE* to protest against Sanghis who burned copies of the Constitution.” While it can be concluded that the video is an old one and is not related to the recent anti-CAA protests, the exact context of the video cannot be ascertained from the available information.
To sum it up, an old video is being falsely shared as “Hindu gods and goddesses’ photos burnt in the anti-CAA protests”
Did you watch our new Episode of the DECODE series?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/01/Hindu-god-potraits-burnt-FB-Post-1.jpg