URL: https://factly.in/an-unrelated-photo-is-being-shared-as-a-three-story-bus-ordered-to-be-used-in-ayodhya-darshan
An unrelated photo is being shared as a three-story bus ordered to be used in Ayodhya Darshan - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-06-30T12:26:36+00:00
A viral photo circulating on social media claims to depict a three-story caravan made in Chennai to transport devotees from Ayodhya Airport to Ram Mandir. In this article, we will examine the veracity of this claim.
Claim: A photo of a three-story caravan made for the purpose of Ram Mandir darshan in Ayodhya.
 Fact: The photo is not of a real bus but a design created by inspiringdesigns.net. No credible news agencies have reported the production of such a bus for Ayodhya Darshan. Therefore, the claim is False.
The photo being shared as a three-story bus for Ayodhya Darshan is unrelated. It originated as a design concept on inspiringdesigns.net and does not represent an actual bus.
Firstly, we searched for credible news reports on the creation of such a  caravan for Ayodhya travel. However, we found no information supporting such claims from any credible source.
The further investigation involved a reverse image search, which led us to a Facebook post featuring the same photo. The post was shared by Inspiring Designs, a page that showcases creative concepts in furniture, woodworking, and crafts (here). The accompanying description stated, ‘Just don’t drive under any bridges!..’ The photo displayed a watermark attributed to @inspiringdesignsnet, and the post included a link to an article featuring various design concepts.
Upon closer inspection, we noticed that the viral image had a masked or digitally covered watermark portion, indicating potential manipulation or misrepresentation. You can observe this in the following photo.
To sum up, an unrelated photo is being shared as a three-story bus ordered to be used in Ayodhya Darshan.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/06/AYodhya-Caravan-Fake-Image-Claim-.jpg