URL: https://factly.in/an-unrelated-image-is-shared-as-that-of-a-minor-girl-gang-raped-in-rajasthan
An unrelated image is shared as that of a minor girl gang-raped in Rajasthan - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-05-12T15:09:34+00:00
An image is being shared with the claim that it shows a minor girl kidnapped and gang-raped by four Muslims in the Tonk district of Rajasthan. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Image of a minor girl kidnapped and gang-raped by four Muslims in Tonk (Rajasthan).
Fact: While it is true that a minor girl was gang-raped by four Muslims in the Tonk district of Rajasthan, the image shared is not related to the incident. The image shows a woman who was murdered by her husband in the Hisar district of Haryana on 16 April 2020. So, the claim is MISLEADING. 
On searching with the keywords ‘minor gang-raped in Tonk’, several news reports were obtained about an incident in which a 16-year-old girl was raped by four muslim youth in Rajasthan’s Tonk on 05 May 2020. The accused kidnapped the girl and took her to an isolated place and then sexually assaulted her. Tonk Police have arrested Nisar Khan, Salman, and Zakir. The fourth accused is a minor himself.
श्रीमान आदर्श सिधू पुलिस अधीक्षक जिला टोंक के आदेशानुसार थाना पचेवर क्षेत्र में हुए गैंगरेप के आरोपियों का मात्र 24 घंटे में पर्दाफाश कर निसार खान उर्फ नसरिया पुत्र श्री बाबू,सलमान उर्फ खोबड़ा पुत्र हुसैन उर्फ लंगड़ा,जाकिर उर्फ राजूराडा पुत्र मिश्री खाॅ को गिरफ्तार किया। pic.twitter.com/TCu7UcjZkS
When the image shared in the post is subjected to reverse image search, it was found in an article of ‘Asianet news’. As per this article, the image shows a woman who was murdered by her husband in the Hisar district of Haryana on 16 April 2020.
To sum it up, an unrelated image is being shared as that of a minor girl who was gang-raped in Rajasthan by four Muslim youth.
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/05/Minor-girl-gang-raped-in-Rajastan-FB-post-1024x497.jpg