URL: https://factly.in/artistic-visualization-image-is-falsely-shared-as-dubai-airport-decorated-with-christmas-trees
Artistic visualization image of Shannon airport is falsely shared as Dubai airport decorated with Christmas trees - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-12-24T08:09:45+00:00
A post accompanying an image showing lights arranged in the shape of a Christmas tree is being widely shared across social media platforms. The claim is that the image shows Dubai airport’s runway decorated with lights in the form of a Christmas tree. Through this article let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Dubai airport runway is decorated with lights in the form of a Christmas tree.
Fact: The image actually shows artistic visualization of Shannon airport, Ireland as part of their advertising campaign in the run up to Christmas. The airport’s authority has categorically mentioned this on their website. This image has nothing to do with Dubai airport. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Reverse image search of the photo in the post led us to tweet by Shannon airport’s official Twitter account which shared the same image. The image is shared with a caption that reads ‘Shannon Airport launches festive campaign’.
Shannon Airport launches festive campaign… 🎄 ✨ Read more here: https://t.co/OTfjlbEJwv#Christmas #shannonairport pic.twitter.com/nPBj3u8zNc
Further, news on the airport’s website related to the festive advertising campaign of the airport states that the advertising campaign involves a redesign of the airport’s runway. However, the authority has categorically stated that ‘the runway image is an artistic visualization produced for Shannon Airport as part of a Shannon Airport Christmas campaign’. This tells us that the image doesn’t show the actual runway of the airport but an artistic rendering.
Further search led us to a news article which reported the advertising campaign of Shannon airport. Even this article reported that the image is an artistic visualization of the airport as part of the festive campaign. All these establish that the image is part of an advertising campaign by Shannon airport, Ireland and the image has nothing to do with the Dubai airport.
To sum it up, the image actually shows artistic visualization of Shannon airport as part of their advertising campaign in the run up to Christmas.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/12/Dubai-airport-Christmas-FB-Post.jpg