URL: https://factly.in/digitally-created-photo-of-a-giant-skeleton-is-falsely-shared-as-the-skeleton-of-ghatotkacha
Digitally created photo of a giant skeleton is falsely shared as the skeleton of Ghatotkacha - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-08-20T12:32:57+00:00
Photo of a giant skeleton is being shared on social media claiming it as the 80 feet giant skeleton of Ghatotkacha, an important character described in the ancient Indian epic of Mahabharata. In the post, it is claimed that this skeleton was found near Kurukshetra. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of 80 feet giant Ghatotkacha skeleton found near the city of Kurukshetra.
Fact: The giant skeleton shown in the post is a digitally created photo. ‘Whitmath57’, an American graphic designer created this using photoshop for the project ‘Size matters 4’ in an online platform ‘DesignCrowd’. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, we found a similar photo in an online platform ‘DesignCrowd’. ‘DesignCrowd’ is an online crowdsourcing platform, which conducts community contests and assigns projects for the designers to make money. In the website, this photo was described as the photoshop design created by an American designer with user name ‘Whitmath57’. It is mentioned that this photo of a giant skeleton is created for the project ‘Size matters 4’ on ‘14 August 2011’. We also found the same photo in the portfolio of the user ‘Whitmath57’ in ‘DesignCrowd’.
Ghatotkacha is an important character described in the ancient Indian epic of Mahabharata. Ghatotkacha is said to be killed in the battle of Kurukshetra, which took place between the two groups of cousins, the Kauravas and Pandavas for the throne of Hastinapura. This digitally created photo is being shared as the skeleton of Ghatotkacha, found near the city of Kurukshetra.
To sum it up, a digitally created photo of giant skeleton is being falsely shared as the 80 feet giant skeleton of Ghatotkacha.
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/08/skeleton-of-Ghatotkacha-claim.jpg