URL: https://factly.in/digitally-created-photo-of-the-sleeping-lady-mountain-shared-as-a-click-from-aircraft
Digitally created photo of ‘The Sleeping Lady Mountain’ shared as a click from Aircraft - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-08-06T11:04:22+00:00
Photo of a mountain in the shape of sleeping lady is shared on social media claiming it as the awesome photo click of ‘The Sleeping Lady’ Mountain in Alaska. The post claims that this picture was shot from Aircraft. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of Alaska’s ‘The Sleeping lady’ mountain, captured from an Aircraft.
Fact: Sleeping Lady shaped mountain seen in the post is a digitally created photo version of Alaska’s Mount Susitna, which is famously known as ‘The Sleeping Lady’ mountain. It was created by a digital artist named Jean-Michel Bihorel. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search, a similar photo was found in ‘Behance’ social media service website. In the website, this photo was shared in ‘Winter Sleep’ album collection, created by a digital artist named Jean Michel Bihorel. Video showing this digital version of ‘The Sleeping Lady’ mountain was posted in the YouTube channel of Jean Michel Bihorel.
When we searched for more information using these keywords, we found the same photo in the official portfolio of Jean Michel Bihorel. In the Portfolio of Bihorel, this photo was shared inside the album of ‘Winter Sleep’.  Sharing the same photo, ‘Art Station’ social media website also credited the photo to Jean-Michel Bihorel.
Jean Michel Bihorel, a digital artist is known for creating digital images. In his ‘Winter Sleep’ album collection, he published this version of Alaska’s Mount Susitna, which is famously known as ‘The Sleeping Lady’ mountain.
When someone asked him about the location of this image on his Facebook post, Jean Michel Bihorel clarified that it’s and digital artwork, and not a real place.
To sum it up, a digitally created photo of ‘The Sleeping Lady’ Mountain in Alaska is falsely shared as an awesome photo click shot from aircraft.
Update (AUGUST 9, 2020):
Jean Michel Bihorel’s Facebook post was added to this article as an additional evidence.
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/08/Sleeping-Lady-Mountain-photo-shot-from-aircraft-Claim-final.jpg