URL: https://factly.in/edited-photo-of-the-old-advertisement-issued-by-the-aap-government-shared-now-with-a-communal-narrative
Edited photo of an old advertisement issued by the AAP Government shared now with a communal narrative - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-02-20T06:42:17+00:00
The screenshot of a newspaper advertisement purportedly issued by the AAP Government is being shared on social media. The advertisement is in Hindi and the English translation of the heading reads “Delhi government’s assistance scheme for the help of riot victims (Muslims)”. This post claims it as the advertisement of the AAP Government scheme which is intended to benefit only the Muslim victims of the Delhi riots. The ad has details of monetary compensation to be provided to the victims based on the category into which they fall and compensation to be given for the damage caused to their residential and commercial units. In the wake of Kisan tractor rally violence in Delhi on Republic day, this post is going viral on social media. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: AAP Government special riot assistance scheme for the Muslim victims of the Delhi riots.
Fact: The Photo shared in the post is an edited one. In the original advertisement, Aravind Kejriwal led Delhi Government mentioned the compensation amounts to the victims of communal riots which took place in Delhi during February 2020. It is nowhere mentioned that Muslims are only eligible under this scheme. The word ‘Muslim’ is nowhere to be seen in the original advertisement. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, we found the soft copy of this advertisement in the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) tweet made on 29 February 2020. This advertisement mentioned the compensation amount to be provided to the victims of the Delhi communal riots that took place in February 2020. In the original version of this advertisement, it is nowhere mentioned that this scheme applies only to Muslims. The word ‘Muslim’ isn’t mentioned in the heading or anywhere else in the original version of this advertisement. Also, the last statement of this tweet mentions that there is no religion greater than humanity.
दंगा पीड़ितों के लिए दिल्ली सरकार द्वारा दिये जाने वाले मुआवज़े का विवरण। यदि आप किसी दंगा पीड़ित को जानते हैं तो उससे साझा करें। और हर संभव मदद करें।इंसानियत से बड़ा कोई धर्म नहीं है। pic.twitter.com/WtDtJF5uS1
AAP also shared the original version of this advertisement on their Facebook page. The English version of the same advertisement shared by the AAP social media and IT strategist Ankit Lal.
A similar photo of this advertisement was found in the ‘ZEE News’ article published on 29 February 2020. In the article, it is reported that Aravind Kejriwal led Delhi Government announced the compensation amount to the victims of communal riots that took place in Delhi during February 2020. It is nowhere mentioned that only Muslims are eligible for this compensation scheme. News articles published on the Delhi Government compensation scheme for Delhi riot victims can be seen here and here.
Earlier, when a similar edited version of this advertisement was shared with a similar claim, FACTLY published a fact-check article. It can be seen here.
To sum it up, an edited photo of the old advertisement issued by the AAP Government is shared now with a communal narrative.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/02/Kejriwal-advertisement-for-Muslim-riot-victims-Claim.jpg