URL: https://factly.in/edited-photo-shared-to-portray-the-self-made-dish-of-kangana-ranaut-as-a-recipe-from-google
Edited photo shared to portray the self-made dish of Kangana Ranaut as a recipe from Google - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-03-06T13:45:36+00:00
A post is being shared on social media claiming that Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut tweeted the photo of a recipe available on Google as her self-made recipe. Kangana Ranaut tweeted this photo of her dish on 04 March 2021. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Kangana Ranaut shared a recipe photo available on Google as her self-made food.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is a morphed one. The recipe photo being shared alongside Kangana Ranaut’s tweet is not the ‘Spring Acai Bowl’ recipe available on the Kuvings website as is being claimed. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On searching the ‘Kuvings’ website, we found a photo of the Spring Acai Bowl recipe. The Spring Acai Bowl recipe on this website is not similar to the recipe shared by Kangana Ranaut. There is no picture on this website similar to the recipe shared in Kangana Ranaut’s tweet.
The text under the Spring Acai Bowl recipe Google search results was morphed and replaced with a photo shared by Kangana Ranaut. Also, in the other photo shared by Kangana, she is seen holding the recipe with her hand.
When this edited photo of her recipe went viral with a false claim, Kangana Ranaut responded through her Twitter handle. Kangana tweeted that a fake edited image of her recipe is being shared on social media with memes. In another tweet, Kangana shared a photo of the table on which she kept this recipe. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the recipe shared by Kangana Ranaut is not the Spring Acai Bowl recipe available on the ‘Kuvings’ website, but her own.
All the influencers accounts automatically get memes to post mocking or making fun of everything I do, in this case this fake edit being spread claiming that I lied about cooking, this may seem frivolous on surface but deep down it’s made to damage one’s credibility and dignity.. pic.twitter.com/dTpLfJgBm5
To sum it up, an edited photo falsely portrays the self-made dish of Kangana Ranaut as a recipe available on Google.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/03/Kangana-Ranaut-self-made-dish-controversyEnglish-Claim.jpg