URL: https://factly.in/edited-images-are-being-shared-as-genuine-up-exit-poll-2022-figures-by-reputed-agencies
Edited images are being shared as genuine UP Exit Poll (2022) figures by reputed agencies - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-03-09T05:30:09+00:00
The screenshots of a few exit poll figures related to the Uttar Pradesh Aeembly Elections (2022) are being shared on social media. Let’s fact-check the claims made in the posts.
Post 1:
Claim: ‘Aaj Tak’ UP Exit Poll 2022 predicted 225 seats for the Samajwadi Party.
Fact: The posted screenshot of ‘Aaj Tak’ is an edited one. The ‘Aaj Tak’ UP Exit Poll 2022 predicted a majority for the BJP, not SP. It predicted only 71-101 seats for the SP. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When the posted screenshot was run through Google Reverse Image Search, the same photo was found as a thumbnail of a video on YouTube. The video was not posted by ‘Aaj Tak’. In fact, on clicking the thumbnail, a ‘Zee Exit Poll’ video clip gets played, which also did not predict 225 seats for the Samajwadi Party.
The posted screenshot is an edited one. The template of ‘Aaj Tak’ breaking news does not match with the posted screenshot.
Also, the ‘Aaj Tak’ UP Exit Poll 2022 predicted a majority for the BJP, not SP. It predicted only 71-101 seats for the SP.
Post 2:
Claim: UP Exit Polls (2022) by international news agencies (like BBC, The New York Times) predicted a majority for the Bahujan Samaj Party.
Fact: None of the listed international news agencies published any exit polls predicting a majority for the Bahujan Samaj Party in the UP Elections (2022). The posted image is an edited version of the ‘Amar Ujala’ template. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When the screenshot of the image was run through Google Reverse Image, a similar photo was found in the ‘Amar Ujala’ article. However, it is different from the posted one. None of the news agencies listed in the ‘Amar Ujala’ article has predicted a majority for the Bahujan Samaj Party.
Also, none of the international news agencies (mentioned in the post) has published any exit polls predicting a majority for the Bahujan Samaj Party in the UP Elections (2022). Recently, the ‘BBC News (Hindi)’ wrote an article based on the exit polls of other news agencies like India Today and Times Now.
To sum it up, edited images are being shared as genuine UP Exit Poll (2022) figures by reputed agencies.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/03/UP-Exit-Poll-FB-Post-1.jpg