URL: https://211check.org/fact-check-does-this-picture-show-part-of-bor-in-jonglei-state
Fact-check: Does this picture show part of Bor in Jonglei State?  - 211CHECK

Publication Date:2023-10-13T16:08:00+00:00
No, the image was taken from Miami Beach, Florida, US
Writer: Jibi Moses
A Facebook post with a picture published on Facebook by Juba Eye claiming to have been taken in Bor, Jonglei State, is false.
The picture, which was posted on November 21, 2023, had the caption “Good morning from Kuch’ngo Bor, Jonglei State”.
The post garnered 366 reactions and over 80 comments in less than three hours. Although the picture alone is questionable, some comments raised suspicion, such as one that read: “I cannot wait to be in Miami, Bor.”
This prompted 211 Check to investigate and find the exact location where the picture was taken.
A screenshot of the picture is shown in the post by Juba Eye.
Claim Verification:
211 Check ran a Google Reverse Image Search, and the results showed the image is of Miami Beach in Florida, USA.
Similarly, Yandex’s results  also show that the image is of Miami Beach.
A screenshot of the same image, as posted by one of the users on Yandex
In one instance, Depositphotos posted the picture alongside other similar pictures with the caption: Aerial view of Miami Beach and Ocean Drive on a beautiful spring day. — Photo
Some other instances where the image was used, all confirming it was from Miami Beach, US, can be seen here, here, and here.
Miami Beach, Florida, USA:
According to Latlong.net, the coastal city of Miami Beach is located between the Atlantic Ocean and Biscayne Bay in southeastern Florida, United States. It is a very popular tourist destination courtesy of its wide beaches, hotels, clubs, bars, and pastel-coloured buildings. 
Conclusion:
211 Check has found that a Facebook post with the image of a beach shared on Facebook, claiming to be Bor, Jonglei State, is false. The image is of Miami Beach, Florida, US. 
This fact check was published by 211 Check with technical support from Code for Africa’s  PesaCheck newsdesk through the African Fact-Checking Alliance (AFCA).
To ensure accuracy and transparency, we at 211 Check welcome corrections from our readers. If you spot an error in this article, please request a correction using this form. Our team will review your request and make the necessary corrections immediately, if any.
It’s vital to fight misinformation and disinformation in the media by avoiding fake news. Don’t share content you’re uncertain about. False information can harm and mislead people, risking their lives—Fact-check before sharing. For more details, visit https://211check.org/ or message us on WhatsApp at +211 917 298 255. #FactsMatter
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Image URLs :
https://lh7-us.googleusercontent.com/pHoXAOZezv46WgRooEqmkAH7_2y8vRqzT5inR_wpivoVqwjymBTFtu2hjHdf3Zl28TwqReYuVgYCg8EIUwWWWbHPgrAoo74SW1NyhzxhMeCceM_U9N8zRLiFd_2tC8uUPaO7jSaTnnKXyc7KK-8qLtg