URL: https://pesacheck.org/fact-checking-president-kaguta-musevenis-tweet-of-an-image-of-rwenzori-mountains-1ee7e224ad94
Fact-checking President Kaguta Museveni’s tweet of an image of Rwenzori Mountains | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-01-16T13:20:30.273Z

Listen
Share
On 11 December 2022, Uganda’s President Yoweri Museveni tweeted an image claiming to be of the Rwenzori Mountains. The snow-capped Rwenzori lies on the border between Uganda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
The President’s tweet reads: “In both my speeches in London, UK on Monday and the US-Africa Leaders’ Summit in Washington DC today. I have continued to highlight the unique beauty of Uganda, the marvel of Rwenzori and the good high-altitude climate. That is why you find permanent snow on the Equator.”
The tweet received attention from netizens and news publications, with some challenging the veracity of the President’s claim.
One user located the image in New Zealand and not Uganda.
News publications, as seen here, here, and here covered the controversial tweet, which was deleted a few days later.
On 11 January 2023, Uganda’s Minister of State for Tourism Martin Mugarra used the same image in a Twitter thread promoting the country as a tourism destination.
A Google reverse image search shows that travel companies use the picture in the same context — that it is the Rwenzori Mountains — as seen here, here, and here. However, the mountains in the photo are not in Uganda.
A TinEye reverse image search shows that the photo is of the Hooker Valley track at Mount Cook in New Zealand, and can be seen on Alamy Stock Photo and Shutterstock. The photo is credited to Eakkapan Asavapanumas.
According to the picture’s description, the photo was taken in 2014 in New Zealand.
Also, images captured by Google Maps’s Street View are of a similar skyline and terrain to that of the photo of Mount Cook in New Zealand.
On the other hand, the Google street view of Rwenzori Mountains shows a distinctly different skyline, as seen below.
Various online searches, including on Facebook, Twitter, and Google of Hooker Valley, reveal the same image shared by users.
PesaCheck has looked into an image tweeted by President Museveni claiming to show the Rwenzori Mountains and finds it to be MISLEADING.
Do you want us to fact-check something a politician or other public figure has said about public finances? Complete this form, or reach out to us on any of the contacts below, and we’ll help ensure you’re not getting bamboozled.
This report was written by Simon Muli and Pius Enywaru and edited by PesaCheck senior copy editor Cédrick Irakoze and acting chief copy editor Francis Mwaniki.
The article was approved for publication by PesaCheck’s managing editor Doreen Wainainah.
PesaCheck, co-founded by Catherine Gicheru and Justin Arenstein, is East Africa’s first public finance fact-checking initiative. It seeks to help the public separate fact from fiction in public pronouncements about the numbers that shape our world, with a special emphasis on pronouncements about public finances that shape government’s delivery of public services linked to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), such as healthcare, rural development and access to water/sanitation. PesaCheck also tests the accuracy of media reportage.
To find out more about the project, visit pesacheck.org.
PesaCheck is an initiative of Code for Africa, through its innovateAFRICA fund, with support from Deutsche Welle Akademie, in partnership with a coalition of local media and other civic watchdog organisations in 14 African countries.
PesaCheck is a signatory of the International Fact-Checking Network’s Code of Principles.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*ytRESf9XwUq4JBYK