URL: https://211check.org/fact-check-is-this-a-photo-of-the-president-of-south-sudan-holding-an-illuminati-contract
Fact-check: Is this a photo of the President of South Sudan holding an Illuminati contract? - 211CHECK

Publication Date:2023-08-16T16:56:23+00:00
No, the picture has been altered. The original photo shows President Salva Kiir Mayardit receiving an invitation letter from a representative of the Turkish president.
Writer: Beatrice Amude Paulino
A Facebook post with an image of South Sudanese president Salva Kiir holding a piece of paper with the words ‘Illuminati contract’ is false. 
The post by ‘Membership Supremacy’ states some benefits of becoming an Illuminati member and is accompanied by four images, including one of Kiir holding the supposed contract.
Screenshot of the post.
Investigation:
A reverse image search of the photo using Google Lens brings up the original photo as featured in an article by the Sudan Tribune published on January 11, 2023. The story’s title reads: “South Sudan’s Kiir invited for a conference in Turkey.’’
The image shows Turkey’s envoy to South Sudan, Erdem Mutaf, presenting the invitation letter to Kiir on behalf of the Turkish president. 
The original image clearly does not bear the ‘Illuminati contract’ text and has also been shared here. 
Conclusion:
211 Check has found that the picture making rounds on social media purportedly showing the President of South Sudan, H.E. Salva Kiir, receiving an ‘Illuminati contract’ is false. The image shows Turkey’s envoy to South Sudan, Erdem Mutaf, presenting an invitation letter to Kiir on behalf of the Turkish president. 
This fact check was published by 211 Check with support from Code for Africa’s PesaCheck and the African Fact-Checking Alliance.
 To ensure accuracy and transparency, we at 211 Check welcome corrections from our readers. If you spot an error in this article, please request a correction using this form. Our team will review your request and make the necessary corrections immediately, if any.
It’s vital to fight misinformation and disinformation in the media by avoiding fake news. Don’t share content you’re uncertain about. False information can harm and mislead people, risking lives—Fact-check before sharing. For more details, visit https://211check.org/ or message us on WhatsApp at +211 917 298 255. #FactsMatter
CONTACT Mr Lucas Henry call (+2348161676526 or WhatsApp him through this number +2348161676526 or Email: [email protected] Hello everyone my name is Andrew Ronald am from USA I am here to give a testimony on how I joined the illuminati brotherhood, I was trying to join this organization for so many years now,I was scammed by fake agent in Kenya and Nigeria,I was down,I could not feed my self and my family anymore and I tried to make money by all miss but all invail, I was afraid to contact any illuminati agent because they have eat my money,One day I across a post of someone giving a testimony, thanking a man called Lucas Henry of being helping him to join the illuminati brotherhood, then I look at the man email and the phone number that was written there, it was a nigeria number I was afraid to contact him because a nigerian agent eat my $3000 and go away with the money then I was very tired, confused and I decided to contact the person that was given the testimony and i called him and I communicated with him on phone calls before he started telling me his own story about when he wanted to join, he told me everything to do, then I made up my mind and called the agent called Lucas Henry and he told me everything to do, and I was initiated, surprisely I was given my benefit of being a new member of the great illuminati brotherhood I was so happy,For those of you trying to join this organization this is your opportunity for you to join CONTACT MR Lucas Henry call (+2348161676526 or WhatsApp him +2348161676526 or email: [email protected]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Image URLs :
https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/HpgjBjni8lXk6kCpNcNtaKTAPZv32FOV_CLC-FopRTIkTp5ZT2-pKwwzYGdpPAfb9qrY6iWV6ERGHdtMn8ZIW0BcC8_GPEqLccjwttcoUce48nE1K_KJwSmSmOsAeUWaW3sWLyXBHYe2ZqN7ptfonoU