URL: https://211check.org/fact-check-is-this-a-picture-of-a-road-washed-by-rain-in-south-sudan
Fact check: Is this a picture of a road washed by rain in South Sudan? - 211CHECK

Publication Date:2023-11-10T09:46:36+00:00
No, the road that was flashed off by flooding was a road between Garissa and Modogashe in Kenya.
Writer: Nancy Ceasar
A Facebook post with a picture of a road halfway washed by rain, purportedly in South Sudan, is false.
The post was shared on November 7, 2023, with a catchy headline, “Chinese-SPLM-IG fake contract. Imagine only one rain.” It attracted comments with differing opinions that prompted 211 Check to investigate. The same pictures were also shared by a different user here.
It should be noted that Chinese companies were contracted to build some South Sudanese highways connecting Juba to the state capitals. 

Claim Verification:
211 Check carried out a Google Search using Google Lens on the picture, and it returned several results as a newly constructed road between Garissa and Modogashe by a Chinese contractor.
Omwamba posted this picture on his X handle on November 6, 2023, titled “The rain has eaten the recently constructed road between Garissa and Modogashe by a Chinese contractor!” 

Similarly, Nykundi shared this post on his X handle on November 6, 2023: “Recently constructed road between Garissa and Modogashe by a Chinese contractor.”

And later, the post was shared by Rodie on X Handle.
Garissa is a town in East Central Kenya. The town is a market centre situated on the Tana River, and its industries process food, beverages, and tobacco products, among others. The news of the road being destroyed by the rain was shared on these sites here, here, here, here, here, here, and here.
Latest South Sudan Weather
It should be noted that in the last few days, Juba and most parts of the country have been receiving a little bit more rain than expected generally in November, and this has caused some flash floods, as seen in some local news outlets. 1, 2, and 3.
Conclusion: 
211 Check finds the claim that a picture of a half-washed away road allegedly in South Sudan and, therefore, constructed under a contract between SPLM-IG and the Chinese, false; the road that was flashed off by flooding was a road between Garissa and Modogashe in Kenya.
To ensure accuracy and transparency, we at 211 Check welcome corrections from our readers. If you spot an error in this article, please request a correction using this form. Our team will review your request and make the necessary corrections immediately, if any.
It’s vital to fight misinformation and disinformation in the media by avoiding fake news. Don’t share content you’re uncertain about. False information can harm and mislead people, risking their lives—Fact-check before sharing. For more details, visit https://211check.org/ or message us on WhatsApp at +211 917 298 255. #FactsMatter.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Image URLs :
https://lh7-us.googleusercontent.com/Iy6Mr0D7_gYvjcWS5VKTPV9OzRo2b-lBHb1YG2ifn8_VoEqfJUcIHgqI8MedbWFhbAAjqRt8fj_zZdylTPS57r0x44ndQUViy1N-GL9JBaCcQSJ5vZbrcuz8glFNh1yfpQyvP9fgHUtcSkEIjFMCXZ6lIgh2DBGkGKXgYsO9g8Wj3OEIY_Ni2r0OTEX_KQ