URL: https://211check.org/fact-check-image-of-yaba-ladu-anthony-from-munuki-is-doctored-and-used-for-satire
Fact-check: Image of Yaba Ladu Anthony from Munuki is doctored and used for satire - 211CHECK

Publication Date:2023-03-14T11:42:38+00:00
A Facebook post featuring an image of a person named Yaba Ladu Anthony from Munuki or Juba is false, as the image is doctored and has been used for satirical purposes on the internet.
Writer: Jibi Moses
A local Facebook page, The Mail, posted a picture of a man who seems to have some resemblance to former United States president Barack Obama.
The post claims the picture is of a man called Yaba Ladu Anthony, who stays in Munuki, Juba, but this is false. 
“This Yaba by the name of Ladu Anthony, a resident of Munuki Suk Libya, claims that he resembles someone in USA  Juba Eye,” reads the caption.

Investigation:
On running a Google reverse image search, 211 Check discovered that other sources had used the picture, as seen here, here, here and here.
These include pages from Malawi, Zambia and  Kenya, showing the picture as having been used out of South Sudan, sharing such information without clear origin and shows. The image has been edited and shared sarcastically as a satire; however, it can fool.
Conclusion:
211 Check finds that the Facebook post with an image claiming that the person in the picture is called Yaba Ladu Anthony from Munuki or anywhere in Juba is false. The image is doctored and has been used on the internet for satire.
Fight misinformation in mainstream and alternative media by not being a victim of fake news. Refrain from sharing content you are unsure about or don’t know where it comes from to prevent spreading false information. For more information on our fact-checking process, visit https://211check.org/ or send us a WhatsApp message at +211 917 298 255 to present a claim. Our team will fact-check it and respond promptly. #FactsMatter
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Image URLs :
https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/n5piT3hfC5rfInZ4h7ACAMOB8sUOEeekEYxCWEaa0JM3xfljtWNy3_eEnY-nHRccqOis_KgiFGIRzAxoaz62NQIaLJDZ6rLyFrCAOo9YhI_lXt5ha_yLFsR9OIR3c0LKdUx3XKCpT_n0h-zwghG59bk