URL: https://211check.org/fact-check-picture-of-man-with-burning-candles-on-head-wasnt-taken-in-juba
Fact-check: Picture of man with burning candles on head wasn’t taken in Juba - 211CHECK

Publication Date:2023-10-31T09:13:58+00:00
The picture was not taken from Juba. It initially first shared in South Africa.
Writer: Makur Majeng
A Facebook post shared by Juba Media on 27th October 2023 claiming that a picture of a man with burning candles on his head was taken in Juba, South Sudan, is false. 
The post further claimed that a rich girlfriend did that to her poor boyfriend, questioning where the poor man would breathe in South Sudan. “In juba last night, a Rich girlfriend did this to her poor Boyfriend  Where will the poor breath from in South Sudan ?” The post reads
The Facebook post shared by Juba Media has generated significant engagement with over 70 likes, 21 comments, and two shares. 
Claim Verification:
211 Check has conducted a Google reverse image search and discovered this claim is false. 
The picture was not taken in Juba and has no relation to South Sudan. The Individual in the picture have no reported connection to Juba.
The picture first appeared online in May 2019. It was reported to have been shared by a Facebook user of a Church in South Africa, according to BestNewsGH, Nairaland, and WithinNigeria blogs. 
The BestNewsGH initially posted the image with the heading, “Church burns candle on member’s head to deliver him from the spirit of homosexuality.” 
While Nairaland and WithinNigeria posted it with the heading “My parents took me to a Church to burn out the spirit of homosexuality – Man cries out” and “Man Cries Out As Church Burns Out The Spirit Of Homosexuality In Style”
Conclusion:
211 Check found the claim shared by Juba media regarding the picture of a man with burning candles on his head being taken in Juba false.
The source of the picture was South Africa, unrelated to South Sudan.
A publication under 211 Check’s ‘Fact-check for a pay’ Initiative with Support from the International Fact-checking Network through the BUILD grant.
To ensure accuracy and transparency, we at 211 Check welcome corrections from our readers. If you spot an error in this article, please request a correction using this form. Our team will review your request and make the necessary corrections immediately, if any.
It’s vital to fight misinformation and disinformation in the media by avoiding fake news. Don’t share content you’re uncertain about. False information can harm and mislead people, risking their lives—Fact-check before sharing. For more details, visit https://211check.org/ or message us on WhatsApp at +211 917 298 255. #FactsMatter
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Image URLs :
https://lh7-us.googleusercontent.com/Wi-fV0QrxMzk2oupBPPoy1gi9Oci_PANfj71idBc_emHW_A8Xoo9mqf6vd2XyHIBVdgrareh8nBhrzOVOCbWOiaBP-Xhm3Ji7thxSg-_AHK4VTUOzob12G82c3wKkk2oMcgy8j69i-jTGG9576lx9lg