URL: https://211check.org/fact-check-these-images-are-not-of-a-man-named-bismark-in-juba
Fact-check: These images are not of a man named Bismark in Juba - 211CHECK

Publication Date:2023-03-20T10:43:23+00:00

It is false that a man named Bismark was admitted to the Juba teaching hospital for skinning his tattooed chest. The picture is of a National Unity Platform (NUP) activist Eric Mwesigwa who was allegedly detained and tortured on his chest.
Writer: Beatrice Amude Paulino
Suncity TV, a Facebook page having about 5,470 followers, posted on the 10th March 2023 a story and pictures of a man purportedly called Bismark, who was admitted to Juba Teaching hospital in South Sudan after he reportedly skinned off his girlfriend’s name tattooed on his chest during the good times of their relationship.
“Suncity met with Bismark this morning from Juba Teaching Hospital. He said the lady broke up with him after graduating from the University of Juba…,” the post reads in part.
The claim is, however, false and here is why.

Two Google reverse image searches here and here using the above pictures show the first image used by these Facebook pages were first used as seen here 1, 2,3. In all of these scenarios, they were different times when the picture was used. One post was captioned, “Phiona, where are you? See how the boychild has loved you.”
The second picture, however, is of a National Unity Platform (NUP) activist Eric Mwesigwa who was allegedly detained and tortured on his chest and burnt with some metals (allegedly flat iron) by the Ugandan Security Services. The following people reported about him, as seen here; ChimpReports, The Observer, YouTube, Twitter, and Sudhir Byaruhanga.

Conclusion: 
211 Check finds the claim that a man in Lologo, a neighbourhood in Juba, South Sudan, is reported to have skinned his girlfriend’s name tattooed on his chest false.
The pictures were randomly collected from the internet to fabricate a story which has not occurred anywhere in South Sudan.
Fight misinformation in mainstream and alternative media by not being a victim of fake news. Refrain from sharing content you are unsure about or don’t know where it comes from to prevent spreading false information. For more information on our fact-checking process, visit https://211check.org/ or send us a WhatsApp message at +211 917 298 255 to present a claim. Our team will fact-check it and respond promptly. #FactsMatter
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Image URLs :
https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/XKaurtMenb6C6Y6vUa6KUBnbvy1gYVkoQiC32-0Vz3-JsrWUCzacsYPsvKeMONmCIke5hu7vKj4oHyg73_pG4xrQQijekd7kssAU8RYEmX6pBs4ZS6NMZFOUcEIlXAMdLPzL-fLRd-vi6v0pdfvxJjs