URL: https://211check.org/fact-check-does-this-photo-show-a-man-who-added-hiv-infected-blood-to-pepsi-products
Fact-check: Does this photo show a man who added HIV- infected blood to Pepsi products? - 211CHECK

Publication Date:2023-07-19T16:11:23+00:00
No, the image under investigation was first published nearly ten years ago, depicting the extradition of a terrorism suspect from Sudan to Nigeria. However, the claim fails to specify the location or time of the incident referenced in the post.
Writer: Beatrice Amude Paulino
An image circulating on WhatsApp claiming that people should avoid consuming any products from the Pepsi Company for a few weeks due to an alleged incident where a worker supposedly added his HIV-infected blood to the beverages firm products is FALSE.
The image shows a man in handcuffs being escorted by police and is accompanied by a message stating that Sky News reported the incident.

Investigation:
According to a Google Lens Search of the image, the photo was shared after the arrest of the alleged Nyanya bombing mastermind, Aminu Ogwuche.
Further investigation by 211 Check confirmed that the photo depicts Aminu Sadiq Ogwuche, who was arrested in Sudan and later extradited to Nigeria after the Nyanya bomb attack in Nigeria’s Federal Capital. According to the Nigerian site Premium Times, Ogwuche was handed over to the Nigerian police on 15 July 2014.
In another related finding, Vishvas News conducted a fact-check on 15 July 2020. It debunked a claim stating that the man in the photo contaminated Cadbury products with his alleged HIV-positive blood.
However, it’s important to note that according to the Centre for Food Safety and the World Health Organization, HIV cannot be transmitted through water or food because the virus does not survive long outside the human body. Additionally, if food contains a small amount of HIV-infected blood or semen, the virus is destroyed when exposed to air, heat from cooking, and stomach acids.
Elsewhere, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) has indicated that the only case where food infected with HIV blood could potentially affect people is if a mother or caregiver who is HIV positive chooses to give pre-chewed food from their mouth to an infant.
Conclusion:
211 Check has found that the claim that a man put his HIV-infected blood in Pepsi products is false and misleading. 
This fact check was published by 211 Check with support from Code for Africa’s PesaCheck and the African Fact-Checking Alliance.
To ensure accuracy and transparency, we at 211 Check welcome corrections from our readers. If you spot an error in this article, please request a correction using this form. Our team will review your request and make the necessary corrections immediately, if any.
It’s vital to fight misinformation and disinformation in the media by avoiding fake news. Don’t share content you’re uncertain about. False information can harm and mislead people, risking lives—Fact-check before sharing. For more details, visit https://211check.org/ or message us on WhatsApp at +211 917 298 255. #FactsMatter 
Fake news is a serious problem
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Image URLs :
https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/5b0yK0v3nFBEm2RwjnwLQD3CQFeKpRTS_ZACrUWtiyPbphR-q5IMZFXNJNDi8YX1S6P12VWaXryUCRKKhAskr2-1k-21bni8PiHOXpxrGT35Fdy_4eCwzlD6XodMP9x0mGke-pnuk2avZkP8jMn0OVE