URL: https://pesacheck.org/fake-these-are-not-real-images-of-donald-trump-being-arrested-ebcb194ef996
FAKE: These are not real images of Donald Trump being arrested | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-03-27T09:40:47.808Z

Listen
Share
This tweet claiming to share images supposedly of former US President Donald Trump being arrested in New York is FAKE.
The tweet reads: “BREAKING: Donald Trump was just arrested by New York law enforcement”.
Attached to the tweet are two photos of Trump supposedly being grabbed by police officers. In one of the images, Trump is about to fall on the ground while in the other image, police officers are holding the ex-President’s arms.
In another tweet posted by the same user, Trump is seen escaping from security officers. The accompanying text reads: “Trump just escaped from law enforcement and is on the run”.
We performed a reverse image search of one of the photos to establish the origin of the images and came across articles by different news publications flagging the images as fake.
One of the articles is by Fox West Texas, which says that the images were first shared by Eliot Higgins, the founder and Creative Director of Bellingcat.
“Making pictures of Trump getting arrested while waiting for Trump’s arrest,” Higgins wrote in a tweet shared on 21 March 2023.
Higgins attached a thread of images showing a sequence of Trump getting arrested, his life in prison up until his escape to go and visit McDonald’s, a fast food chain outlet.
Higgins told curious tweeps that he used an Artificial Intelligence tool called Midjourney v5 to generate the images.
Midjourney is an independent research lab, whose aim is to explore the different mediums of thought and expand human imaginative powers. It focuses on three main pillars: design, human infrastructure, and AI.
In another tweet, Higgins confirmed that Midjourney had banned him from the tool for creating the fake images of Trump.
Over the weekend, Trump announced that he was going to be arrested on Tuesday, 21 March 2023, and urged his supporters to hold demonstrations. However, that did not happen as the Manhattan Grand Jury did not meet on Tuesday.
The jury is expected to meet on Thursday, 23 March 2023, and hear from one more witness. A spokesperson told the Independent that Trump’s team had not been given a notification of an impending arrest.
Trump is being probed for a $130,000 hush-money payment that his former lawyer, Michael Cohen, made to film star Stormy Daniels a few weeks before the 2016 US presidential election. Daniels is said to have had an affair with Trump in 2006 and the money was to silence her.
PesaCheck has looked into a tweet claiming to show images of former US President Donald Trump being arrested in New York law and found it to be FAKE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*BFB9A9NTSdaa4inU