URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-are-not-of-a-plane-shot-down-by-the-ethiopian-air-force-4c67f545686e
FALSE: These images are not of a plane shot down by the Ethiopian Air Force | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-09-28T06:36:07.278Z

Listen
Share
These Facebook posts with this and this images claiming to show planes shot down by the Ethiopian Air Force are FALSE.
The first post has an Amharic text that translates as; “Breaking news. The heroic Ethiopian Air Force took down the plane of our eternal enemies, which was flying over Ethiopia’s skies to transport weapons to the terrorist TPLF by defying the sovereign airspace of Ethiopia. They blew it out of the air. Our valiant Air Force performed the usual feat.”
This and this are similar claims with the same image.
There have been reports such as this, this, and this of the Ethiopian Air Force shooting down a plane carrying weapons for the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) which encroached on Ethiopia’s airspace through Sudan.
However, the Tigray government has refuted the allegation and dismissed it as false. Although the Tigray External Affairs Office Twitter account is not verified, Getachew Reda, an advisor of the President of Tigray, retweeted the post on his verified account.
Google reverse image search results established that the picture is not related to the war in Ethiopia.
The image, shared on this website on 28 March 2021, reports on a plane crash near Tucson, Arizona, USA. “A plane crash-landed on Pump Station Road in Avra Valley, Ariz. March 28, 2021. Courtesy Pima County Sheriff’s Department,” the caption of the picture reads.
The same photo was also posted on this website.
The second post in Amharic translates into; “Breaking news. It was said that this plane was hit and crashed when it entered Ethiopian airspace through Sudan.”
As seen here and here, the same image was used by other netizens to support a similar claim.
But results from Google reverse image search indicate that the second photo does not show a plane that was shot down by the Ethiopian Air Force either.
The picture has been used on different platforms, and was published on this website on 24 September 2020 with the caption, “MiG-29S firing S-8 rockets. Uzbekistan Air Force.”
PesaCheck has examined Facebook posts with images claiming to show planes that were shot down by the Ethiopian Air Force and finds them to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*kwhiFbMRM8j_bYXZ