URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-tigrayan-refugees-conscripted-in-recent-fighting-on-sudanese-border-fb8acf86988c
FALSE: These images do not show Tigrayan refugees conscripted in recent fighting on Sudanese border | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-04-04T06:36:00.967Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post claiming to show Tigrayan refugees forcefully conscripted in recent fighting on the Sudan-Ethiopia border is FALSE.
“Tigrayan invaders flee to Sudan and surrender their weapons!! Recently, the Tigrayan invader attempted to launch an attack from the Sudan side. Tigrayans who massacred innocent people in Welkait Tegede and went to Sudan were forced to take part in this fighting, but they fled to Hamdayet,” the post in Amharic text in part said.
The post provides a telegram link purportedly for details about the incident. And the post in the Telegram channel explained that the refugees stayed at the Red Cross bureau after they declined to surrender their weapons to Tigray forces and instead handed over to Sudanese troops.
There was a report of a fire outbreak at the refugee camp in Sudan. But the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees attributed the cause of the fire to an accident.
However, as seen here and here, Google reverse image search results reveal that the images do not show recent events.
The first image was shared on the Alamy website, and it shows Ethiopian refugees in Sudan waiting for food rations.
“Ethiopian men who fled the war in Tigray region, queue for wet food ration at the Um-Rakoba camp, on the Sudan-Ethiopia border in Al-Qadarif state, Sudan November 19, 2020,” the description of the image on the Alamy website reads. Image credit is given to REUTERS/Mohamed Nureldin Abdallah.
The same image was published on the DW and Al Jazeera websites in 2020.
Similarly, the second picture was published on the TRTWorld website and shows the Ethiopian refugees in the Qadarif region of Eastern Sudan.
“Ethiopian refugees gather in Qadarif region, easter Sudan, on November 17, 2020,” the description of the image said. Image credit is given to AP.
Other websites such as this and this published the same image.
The war between the Tigray forces and the Federal government of Ethiopia is yet to be fully resolved. However, the two conflicting parties signed a cessation of hostility agreement to facilitate humanitarian aid flow in the Tigray region, north of Ethiopia.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with images claiming to show Tigrayan refugees conscripted in the recent fighting on the Sudan-Ethiopia border and found it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*gd1vHmau7zneFvR7