URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-the-weapons-in-this-photo-were-not-seized-at-debre-sina-in-december-2021-4afac9d5fc57
FALSE: The weapons in this photo were not seized at Debre Sina in December 2021 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-12-14T12:35:26.079Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook claiming to show weapons seized in Debre Sina town in the North Shewa zone of Amhara region, Ethiopia is FALSE.
The post is written in Amharic and was shared on Facebook from an account named ‘Ethio eritrea’ on 4 December 202. It translates: “The weapons seized in Debre Sina. Ethiopia’s mighty deeds”.
The post is accompanied by the same image of weapons used twice; the first with someone sitting beside the stockpile, and the other enlarged to show detail.
Debre Sina is a town located in North Shewa zone in Amhara regional state, about 181km from Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia.
In late November 2021, the town was reported to be under the control of the Tigray Defense Force (TDF). TDF is a military structure that has evolved after war broke out in November 2020 between the Ethiopian government and forces initially aligned to the Tigray People’s Liberation Front. The Ethiopian government announced in early December 2021 that it has recaptured the cities of Dessie and Kombolcha. The TDF spokesman dismissed the statement.
After recapturing the town, state-owned Fana Broadcasting Corporate (FBC) ran video footage showing infrastructure allegedly destroyed by TDF in Debre Sina town.
However, PesaCheck has learnt the image shared on Facebook claiming to show weapons seized from Debre Sina in December 2021 is unfounded.
Reverse image search results reveal that the first picture was captured in 1991 during a fight between the former Derg regime — a military committee formed from the Ethiopian Armed Forces — and Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF), the predecessor of the current ruling Prosperity Party in Ethiopia.
The image was captured by AFP photographer Alexander Joe and shows a rebel from the EPRDF sitting by a pile of weapons seized from the former Ethiopian army at Addis Ababa on 29 May 1991. In the second photo, the image of the rebel was cropped out.
PesaCheck has investigated an image shared on Facebook claiming to show weapons seized in Debre Sina town in North Shewa, Amhara regional state, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*qPTaOp3FVnsL5Ayh