URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-egypt-diverting-water-from-river-nile-a11990ab3a0c
FALSE: These images do not show Egypt diverting water from River Nile | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-05-19T09:07:43.103Z

Listen
Share
A post shared on Facebook claiming to show that Egypt is diverting water from the River Nile through huge water pipes and storage facilities is FALSE.
The post, written in Amharic language, claims Egypt has diverted the Nile water from its natural course through the Sinai desert up to Israel. Ethiopia should equally fill the Grand Ethiopia Renaissance Dam (GERD), the post adds.
“Egypt has diverted Nile water outside its natural course and took the water about 300KM across Sinai desert and has started filling 4 very huge storage facilities, as depicted in the picture,” the claim translated in English reads.
Two images accompany the post. The first picture shows water gushing from two large pipes while a team of men pose for a photo. The other is an image of a large pipe being laid in a trench, with workmen standing on top of the pipe and trucks parked beside the unidentified construction area.
“The size of the water storage facilities is striking. There are 4 huge storage facilities of 420 square meters in length and 60 meters wide each. As you can see in the pictures, the pipes that take water to the storage facilities are 4 meters in a diameter,” the post further describes the water diversion.
Ethiopia, Egypt and Sudan are locked in a dispute over the use of the Nile water. Ethiopia, which is constructing the mega GERD and has started filling the dam, considers the multi-billion dollar project vital for its development. Egypt and Sudan, on the other hand, feel the GERD threatens the flow of the Nile, which sustains millions of lives there.
Meditations by different actors, including the African Union, have so far failed to reach an agreement over the management of GERD. Following the deadlock, there are fears that the tensions could escalate to conflict in the region.
The US special envoy to the Horn of Africa, Jeffrey Feltman, has been on tour in the region since May 4, 2021, in a bid to help resolve the long-standing dispute over the GERD.
However, PesaCheck has looked into the pictures used to show that Egypt is diverting water and finds the claim to be untrue. Reverse image search results reveal the pictures are of the Great Man-Made River in Libya and have been used since 2007.
Both pictures used in the claim featured in an article in Russian titled, “The great man-made river: Gaddafi’s project that made the desert green”.
The article describes the man-made river, one of the most significant legacies of Libya’s former ruler, Muammar Gaddafi’s regime, that turned parts of the desert into arable land.
Gaddafi’s government spent about $33 billion to construct the mega project, for use in agricultural activities and other needs, the article explains.
PesaCheck has investigated a post shared on Facebook purporting to show Egypt diverting water from River Nile using huge water storage facilities, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*k3PE2NPuDTzcnzDS