URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-purportedly-showing-the-first-set-of-made-in-nigeria-helicopters-is-untrue-88ad95eb1cd1
FALSE: This image purportedly showing the first set of made-in-Nigeria helicopters is untrue | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-02-09T06:46:56.230Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image purportedly showing the first set of helicopters made in Nigeria is FALSE.
The photo shows four helicopters lined up in a row; two of them red in colour while the other two are black. The post accompanying the image states that the helicopters were made by the Nigeria Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI).
However, the post does not indicate when or where the helicopters were unveiled and there is no information on the same on the NASENI website or its Facebook page.
A reverse image search brings up the photo published on the website of Dynali Helicopter Company, a Belgian manufacturer of the H3 Sport ultralight helicopter. The photo was also shared on Dynali’s Facebook page on April 1, 2017.
A statement by NASENI reveals Dynali is a technical partner and trained a team from the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) back in 2019, ahead of the launch of manufacturing of the first made-in-Nigeria non-commercial helicopter, which is yet to be certified. No images of the said aircraft are published on NASENI’S website.
The statement also adds that Nigeria’s President Mohammadu Buhari planned to launch the NASENI manufactured helicopters in the last quarter of the year 2021.
In a statement put out by President Buhari’s spokesperson, Femi Adesina, on January 26, 2021, the executive vice chairman of NASENI, Prof Mohammed Haruna, is quoted as saying the agency is working to locally produce jet engines and assemblage of passenger and military helicopters.
PesaCheck has looked into the image purportedly showing the first set of helicopters made in Nigeria, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*nrzbnfT8YhHk38xb