URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-photo-isnt-of-a-road-in-nyandarua-county-kenya-38d276f6e3d1
FALSE: This photo isn’t of a road in Nyandarua County, Kenya | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-05-26T15:16:48.813Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with a photo supposedly of a road in Nyandarua County, Kenya is FALSE.
The accompanying text claims that the road links Kipipiri and Ol Kalou towns.
Nyandarua is one of the devolved units in the former Central Province.
PesaCheck investigated the location of the road depicted in the photo, prompted by several inconsistencies in the image subjects.
The first notable inconsistency is the colour of the front licence plates on the cars, which appeared to be blue. This deviates from the norm in Kenya, where the lettering is black on either white or yellow backgrounds. Black on blue and green background plates are reserved for parastatals and counties while black on red background plates for foreign missions.
Furthermore, the licence plate format in the photo does not adhere to the standard arrangement commonly used in Kenya. The typical format follows a pattern of LLL NNNL, where ‘L’ represents a letter and ’N’ represents a number.
A Google reverse image search established that the photo is of a road in China and not Nyandarua. The picture was published by China Central Television (CCTV).
We also performed a Google translation for the CCTV article intro and confirmed that the road is in Chengdu, Sichuan province, southwestern China.
The translated version reads: “The second ring road in Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan province in southwestern China, has been covered with creepers to create a green tunnel. It will give you the cool feeling of walking in the park, protected from the scorching sun in the summer heat.”
China News and The United Chinese Press also published the photo.
PesaCheck examined a Facebook post with a photo supposedly of a road in Nyandarua County, Kenya, and found it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/1*JmB0Jlr1ElyjazNJDyessQ.png