URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-of-melting-traffic-lights-was-not-taken-in-kitengela-kenya-9a5fea494ace
FALSE: This image of melting traffic lights was not taken in Kitengela, Kenya | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-06-29T05:57:23.235Z

Listen
Share
This image on Facebook purportedly of melting traffic lights in Kitengela, Kenya, is FALSE.
The 14 June 2023-dated image is accompanied by the text, “Kitengela right now” and three grimacing emojis.
The image has also been shared here and is purportedly of the situation in Kitengela as of 16 June 2023.
Kitengela is in Kajiado County, a semi-arid region characterised by high temperatures.
But was the image taken in Kitengela in June 2023? A Google reverse image search brings up the image shared on various sites such as here, here, and here.
Similarly, searches on Yandex, TinEye and Bing bring up the image, also shared on various platforms.
From the results, the image has been online at least since July 2022 and has also been shared in 2023.
Further, the image has been attributed to different locations such as Patision in Greece, Gaziantep in Turkey, Texas and Las Vegas in the United States of America.
A keyword search brings up several reports of melting traffic lights, and among them are fact-checks, as seen here and here, where the image is cited as being from different locations.
In one report, the incident is claimed to have been in Italy due to a fire, not extreme temperatures. Also, the photo appears to have been taken from a different angle.
While the image has been shared many times online, there are no mentions of Kenya or credible reports corroborating the melting of traffic lights in the country in 2023.
As such, PesaCheck cannot independently verify where the incident happened. Nevertheless, the photo has been online since 2022 and it is certainly not of a recent incident in Kitengela.
PesaCheck has looked into an image on Facebook supposedly of melting traffic lights in Kitengela and found it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*bghU7RShAROGhye-