URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-of-daily-nations-apology-article-titled-no-african-leader-admitted-in-city-3ebf0a22a249
FALSE: This image of Daily Nation’s apology article titled ‘No African leader admitted in city hospital’ is fake | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-03-14T10:15:10.847Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image of an article seemingly published by the Daily Nation claiming they have apologised for a story they ran about an African leader admitted at Nairobi Hospital, is FALSE.
The article with the headline, “No African leader admitted to city hospital as reported,’’ appears to be from the newspaper’s March 11, 2021 edition. The reporter’s name is given as Daniel Wambui.
The image of the article was shared on social media, here, here and here.
On March 10, the Daily Nation published a story with the headline, “African leader taken ill, admitted to city hospital”. This led to the claim made on March 11, stating that the publication has apologised.
The legitimate pages for Daily Nation newspaper include the day, date and category on the masthead, while the image posted with the claim only shows the date of publication.
There is no mention of an apology of the ‘African leader article’ in the March 11 edition nor on the website.
PesaCheck manually perused through the March 11 published paper and searched for both the title and the content of the apology article on the newspaper but could not find anything related to it, even among articles published on their website.
A search for the alleged author, Daniel Wambui, and the contents of the article yielded no results on the Nation’s website.
PesaCheck also reached out to the publication to confirm the authenticity of the article shared on Twitter.
“This is not a genuine Daily Nation article,” Mr Augustine Sang, the audience engagement producer at Nation Africa, told PesaCheck. “The story on the genuine publication carried a story about ‘Raila out of danger’ and it is the only one on Page 4 of the Daily Nation’s March 11, edition,” he added.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with an image of an article seemingly published by the Daily Nation claiming they have apologised for a story they ran about an African leader admitted at Nairobi Hospital, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*slsmEAZDsC0Sv7Pf