URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-doesnt-show-people-killed-in-wollega-in-september-2022-5842868b0568
FALSE: This image doesn’t show people killed in Wollega in September 2022 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-09-20T09:40:27.817Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with an image claiming to show people killed in Wollega by an Oromo Liberation Front (OLF) gang in September 2022 is FALSE.
Part of the post in Amharic translates as; “Sad information. OLF brutally killed more than 50 Amhara women, children and the weak living in the occupied Uke Kersa with knives and heavy weapons. The ethnic cleansing was carried out following the occupation of the East Welega Zone of Guto Gida District, Uke Karsa Kebele on 9 September 2022 at 12 o’clock in the morning. On 9 September 2022, starting from 12 o’clock in the morning, the massacre of Amhars was carried out with the help of a group of weapons. According to eyewitnesses, more than 50 Amharas were killed in the ethnic massacre. One of the eyewitnesses said that he saw more than 20 dead bodies with his own eyes.”
The post adds: “It has been revealed that the Arat Kilo killing squad entered the houses of the Amharas in Uke Karsa city and brutally killed them with bullets and knives. Eyewitnesses who say that Shimelesh Abdisa’s and the Prime Minister’s killer group took control of the city and looted the Ethiopian Commercial Bank, Awash and Oromia Cooperative Banks, said that the police station was also burned in the massacre that lasted for more than half a day. It is said that when the massacre took place, Ethio Telecom cooperated with them by disconnecting the network. It was also stated that no security forces arrived when Amharas were massacred.”
Similar claims were shared here and here.
OLF refers to the political party named Oromo Liberation Front.
However, Google reverse image search results indicated that the image under investigation is old.
The picture was shared on this Twitter account on 22 August 2021. The Amharic and Afaan Oromo caption of the image reads: “prosperity’s gambling continues in a disgusting manner.” Prosperity refers to the Ethiopian ruling political party, Prosperity Party.
A war continues in Wollega between the Oromo Liberation Army (OLA) and the federal government of Ethiopia. As seen here and here, reports indicate that many people have been killed in several war-related incidents.
The Oromo Liberation Army was a military wing of the Oromo Liberation Front. However, OLA is reported to have separated from OLF in 2019.
PesaCheck has examined the Facebook post with an image claiming to show people killed in Wollega by an Oromo Liberation Front gang in September 2022 and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*ZKEBGsm8QGVoVlwm