URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-a-military-helicopter-shot-down-by-eritrean-soldiers-984e005c0741
FALSE: These images do not show a military helicopter shot down by Eritrean soldiers | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-07-29T15:08:22.357Z

Listen
Share
These images used to advance a claim that Eritrean soldiers shot down a military helicopter delivering weapons to the junta are FALSE.
The reference to a junta has been severally used by the Ethiopian Prime Minister, Abiy Ahmed, to refer to the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF). TPLF and the Ethiopian federal government have been fighting since November 2020 in the Tigray region.
“Breaking news. A military helicopter, which was trying to enter with a variety of weapons that cause mass destruction, was hit by Eritrean soldiers,” part of the post in Amharic reads.
“A helicopter with a variety of destructive weapons disintegrated while attempting to enter Tigray via Eritrean airspace. The origin of the helicopter is unknown,” the post adds.
The post has two images of helicopters on the ground.
However, Google reverse image search results show that both images have been used previously by different websites and in incidents outside of Ethiopia.
The first image shows a Colombian army helicopter that crashed in northwestern Colombia. The picture was taken on 16 January 2018. Ten people perished in the crash, Viet Nam News reported.
Similarly, the second image depicts the body of a crashed Colombian helicopter in Guaviare Province, Colombia. In the accident, at least nine Colombian soldiers died. The members of the military were travelling to Guaviare to fight against FARC guerrilla dissidents.
Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia (FARC) is a rebel group in Colombia, and there have been allegations that the group is behind different atrocities in the country.
Although there are news reports about the involvement of Eritrean soldiers in the ongoing war in Ethiopia, these images do not show a military helicopter shot down by Eritrean soldiers.
PesaCheck has looked into images shared on Facebook claiming to show a military helicopter shot down by Eritrean soldiers and finds them to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*2yXfB3gbWPpr5Nlf