URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-the-soldiers-in-this-image-on-the-egypt-today-website-are-not-from-tigray-b5e6685eb8d3
FALSE: The soldiers in this image on the Egypt Today website are not from Tigray | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-11-25T08:05:58.695Z

Listen
Share
This image published on the Egypt Today website, claiming to show Tigray forces, is FALSE.
A section of the article posted with the image reads: “The policies of Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed are “reckless and childish,” rendering Ethiopia “adrift,” Tigrayan activist Mustafa Habashy told MBC Masr on Saturday. He claimed that all Ethiopian factions have united when it became clear that Ahmed’s regime is falling apart”.
“He claimed that all Ethiopian factions have united when it became clear that Ahmed’s regime is falling apart. Habashy said there were major clashes on the outskirts of Addis Ababa, and that once The Tigray People Liberation Front and the other allied forces overthrow Ahmed, a transitional government will be appointed until elections are held,” the report adds.
However, TinEye reverse image search results reveal that the photo shows neither Tigray activists nor the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) forces. The image shows Nigerien commandos and it was taken on 18 April 2018 by Reuters photographer Aaron Ross. The image was captured during a military exercise in Ouallam, Niger. The description of the image on the Reuters website reads, “Nigerien commandos simulate a raid on a militant camp during the U.S. sponsored Flintlock exercises in Ouallam, Niger April 18, 2018.”
It was reported that nine Ethiopian opposition parties were forming an alliance under the name “the United Front of Ethiopian Federalist and Confederalist Forces” in the United States in November 2021. Also, the fight between the Ethiopian federal government and Tigrayan rebels has intensified in recent weeks.
PesaCheck has looked into the image published on the Egypt Today website claiming to show Tigray forces and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*PX3xzfWErhDgEo7E