URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-of-protests-are-not-from-the-area-outside-the-us-embassy-in-nairobi-f26fad194d5a
FALSE: These images of protests are not from the area outside the US Embassy in Nairobi | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-05-29T17:05:02.450Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post claiming to show protests outside the United States Embassy in Kenya over the death of an unarmed black man in the US city of Minneapolis is FALSE.
The post has two images which show tyres burning and an ant-riot police officer confronting a mob.
On May 27, a video of an American police officer kneeling on the neck of a handcuffed black man was shared online. The man, identified as George Floyd, lost consciousness as a result of the police action, and was declared dead on arrival at a nearby hospital.
The incident sparked outrage online and protests in the US, but no protests have been reported along the United Nations Avenue in Nairobi where the US Embassy is located.
The first photo appears to have a watermark which has been blurred out, and a Google reverse image search did not show when it was originally posted online or the photographer it is credited to.
A reverse image search on the second image shows that it was published on VOA News in 2017 alongside an article on protests over the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta. The image is credited to J. Craig of VOA, and the caption states that it shows a police officer in the image was trying to put out a bonfire lit by protestors. It is credited to VOA photographer J Craig.
Additionally, the roads on both the images are unlikely to be at the US Embassy in Gigiri, which is on United Nations Avenue, a two-lane road. The roads in the image appear to be wide avenues, likely at the junction of the road connecting Ngong Road with the Southern Bypass. At the time the first photo was taken, the road was still under construction.
Ms Emily Fertik, the spokesperson for the US Embassy in Nairobi, dismissed claims that there were protests outside the embassy.
“There are no disturbances or protests outside the US Embassy. The images are completely false,” she told PesaCheck via email.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with photos claiming to show protests outside the US Embassy in Kenya over the killing of an unarmed black man in Minneapolis and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*BgO__50o30gCoC_a