URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-fighting-at-zobel-mountain-in-amhara-region-of-ethiopia-f911bb6b989d
FALSE: This image does not show fighting at Zobel Mountain in Amhara region of Ethiopia | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-12-12T16:36:31.706Z

Listen
Share
A post on Facebook claiming to show the intensification of war at Zobel Mountain, North Wollo Zone in Amhara regional state is FALSE.
“The war has resurfaced again in Raya”, the headline of the post in Amharic reads.
“The Junta invaders, who had used all their forces to capture the Zoble Mountain, a military strategic place, spent the night at Arekuwat, near the Zoble, were crushed by Raya Fano [Amhara ethinic youth group], militia and the farmer’s army”, the post reads in part.
“After three days of fierce fighting, the Junta force, that encountered a heavy loss, managed to control Zoble mountain partly as the popular force lacked heavy artillery back-up”, it adds.
Zobel mountain is located in Kobo, also known as Raya Kobo district, in the North Wollo Zone of Amhara regional state.
The Zone is among the many areas affected by the war between the Ethiopian government and the Tigray forces. Tigray forces captured two major cities, including Dessie and Kombolcha, in Wollo in October 2021. The fighting has continued, with the government stating that it had recaptured many towns in late November 2021.
Despite the continued fighting, the image accompanying the image post does not show fighting in Zobel Mountain of the Amhara region.
Reverse image search results reveal that the photo shows a protest staged in front of the United States (US) embassy in Addis Ababa.
The image appeared on multiple online media outlets on 25 November 2021, showing a gathering of demonstrators with reports indicating that they were denouncing the US intervention in the internal affairs of Ethiopia.
The event was featured on the Fana Broadcasting Corporate (FBC) website and Press TV, where other images showed the demonstrators carrying banners with the wording “intervention is undemocratic”, protesting the “US intervention in Ethiopia”.
PesaCheck has investigated an image shared on Facebook claiming to show the intensified war in Zobel Mountain of the Amhara region and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*PkflDSGmBr1e18yg