URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-is-not-of-helicopters-at-st-andrews-school-turi-1fc22b5fcfe8
FALSE: This image is not of helicopters at St Andrew’s School, Turi | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-06-29T04:45:51.975Z

Listen
Share
A tweet claiming to show helicopters parked at a field at St Andrew’s School, Turi, in Kenya is FALSE.
The author describes the image as of a fleet of helicopters parked in a large field. “Imagine this is just a normal Visiting day at St, Andrews Turi in Kenya!” the tweet reads.
We performed a reverse image search to establish whether the image was taken at St Andrew’s School, Turi, in Kenya. The results led us to the MD Helicopters Instagram account, which shared the image on 13 June 2023. The account shared the image alongside the text, “What a fantastic event! Thanks to all who played a part in The Great UK/Europe 500 Fly In. @heliopsmag”.
The page also shared a video showcasing all the aircraft at the Great UK/Europe 500 Fly In event, which are the same planes in the claim.
HeliOps Magazine also shared similar videos of the event. From the video captions, we established that the aircraft were from MD Helicopters, LLC, a company that manufactures commercial, military, law enforcement, and air-rescue helicopters.
We also learned that HeliOps Magazine organised the Great UK/Europe 500 Fly In event. The event, which was held in early June 2023, showcased different types of MD 500s.
MD 500 Helicopters are an American family of light utility civilian and military helicopters manufactured by MD Helicopters.
St Andrew’s School, Turi is an international boarding school in Nakuru, Kenya, offering learners the British curriculum in preparatory and secondary school (A level). The school has an airstrip used to train students. One can also charter a flight to the school.
PesaCheck has looked into a tweet claiming to show an image of helicopters parked at St Andrew’s School, Turi in Kenya and found it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*9iKL1w81YwRtrsib