URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-pushing-a-case-of-electoral-malpractice-in-kiambaa-and-muguga-are-inaccurate-69334af79e8d
FALSE: These images pushing a case of electoral malpractice in Kiambaa and Muguga are inaccurate | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-07-30T06:52:35.164Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post claiming to show electoral malpractice in the Kiambaa constituency and Muguga ward by-elections is FALSE.
The post uses two images to push the case that electoral malpractices took place in the by-elections. In the first image, Deputy President William Ruto is seen handing money to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) chairman, Wafula Chebukati. Some of the money exchanging hands is also seen on the ground in between DP Ruto and Chebukati.
A reverse image search of the photo shows that there was no exchange of money in the original picture. Kenyan blogger Robert Alai is among those who shared the original photo on 16 July 2021.
A reverse image search of the original photo shows that it was taken on 3 October 2017, when DP Ruto, accompanied by some Jubilee Party officials, met with IEBC officials at the BOMAS of Kenya. Chebukati received the ruling party officials.
The main aim of the meeting was for IEBC to reach an agreement between leaders in the Jubilee and NASA parties on the 26 October 2017, repeat presidential elections.
The second image in the Facebook post is a poster with a photo of DP Ruto and the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) Party logo. The poster claims that the DP has asked the public to report electoral malpractices in the Kiambaa and Muguga by-elections.
“Kindly report major incidences of electoral malpractice in Kiambaa and Muguga by-elections directly to my personal line 0722 517 997. Regards, Deputy President William Ruto,” the text on the post reads.
PesaCheck searched for the poster on DP Ruto’s Twitter and Facebook pages, and it was not there. Similarly, the UDA Party website, Twitter and Facebook pages have not posted such information.
To further verify the information on that poster, PesaCheck contacted the UDA Party director of communications, Wanjohi Githae, who said the information is fake.
“That is fake. There is nothing like that. Why would we want to know the electoral malpractices in Kiambaa yet we won?” said Githae.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post claiming to show two images of electoral malpractices in the Kiambaa constituency and Muguga ward by-elections and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*aw30b0qn05foHoD9