URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-us-forces-deployed-to-ukraine-to-engage-with-russia-24a5fd3c430
FALSE: These images do not show US forces deployed to Ukraine to engage with Russia | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-02-27T19:02:15.963Z

Listen
Share
Images shared on Facebook claiming to show that the United States (US) is deploying its army to the Ukraine border to engage in the ongoing war with Russia is FALSE.
“America has deployed its force prepared to engage in the war from Poland to Ukraine border”, the post in Amharic, shared on Facebook on 24 Feburary 2022, reads in part.
“It is expected that the war will be conducted between the American army and Russian troops after hours,” the post adds.
The post is accompanied by two images, both showing armed men in military uniform on movement.
US president Joe Biden, on 24 February 2022, announced additional sanctions on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine. Russia claimed the objective of the invasion is to demilitarise Ukraine and said that the government of Ukraine poses a threat to Russia. The new sanctions include export blocks on technology and Russian banks and freezing the assets of Russian businesses.
The US president stated, during a press conference, that his country will not send troops to Ukraine to engage in the conflict. He also noted that the role of US forces in the region is to defend allies and members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).
However, the images claiming to show US soldiers in Poland being deployed to the Ukraine border to engage in the war with Russia, is unfounded.
Google reverse image search results tell that the fist image shows the US army in Poland in 2014.
The image shows the first US army troops who arrived at Swidwin in Poland, in 2014 as part of the US commitment to reinforce NATO in east Europe when the crisis with Ukraine began. It was captured by AFP photographer Janek Skarzynskiin Swidwin, Poland on 23 April 2014.
Results of reverse image search for the second image also reveals that the image shows the US army in Poland, not on the Ukraine border as claimed.
The image shows the US 82nd Airborne Division at an airbase near Arlamow in Poland preparing to support refugees arriving from Ukraine. The image was captured by Reuters photographer Kacper Pempel on 23 February 2022.
PesaCheck has looked into images shared on Facebook claiming to show the US army deployed to the Ukraine border to engage in war with Russia and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*_QjuWdA_A_W7nqNd