URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-is-not-of-a-25-metre-skeleton-found-in-gojjam-ethiopia-12e70b1c10bf
FALSE: This image is not of a 25-metre skeleton found in Gojjam, Ethiopia | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-12-12T06:43:29.761Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with an image claimed to be of a 25-metre skeleton found in Gojjam, in the Amhara region of Ethiopia, is FALSE.
Part of the Amharic post’s text is loosely translated to; “The longest person, who was 25 metres tall, was in the land of Gojjam. Hearing about the discovery of a 25-metre-long skeleton would really surprise anyone. The tomb of an individual called Banay was found in Deki Sub-Kebele, Gomer Dond Kebele, Womberma District, West Gojjam Zone, Amhara Region. The 25-metre-long cemetery rests on the border of Gomer Dond and Koli kebele from east to west.”
The post also includes purported comments from residents who claim to have heard about the deceased from their parents. Here and here are similar posts with the same image. Also, the post on Dembecha Zuria Communication stated; “Our doors are open to anyone who wants to do archaeological research.”
However, Google reverse image search results established that the photo in the claim has been used in different contexts since 2013.
The picture was shared on the Pinterest website with the description, “Find Out How the Giant Skeleton Hoax Started. National Geographic has not discovered ancient giant humans, despite rampant reports and pictures. But we have discovered how the hoax started and perhaps why people believe.”
A similar statement with different images is found in the article published on the National Geographic website on 14 December 2007 with the title, “Skeleton of Giant Is Internet Photo Hoax.”
Part of the article reads: “By 2004 the “discovery” was being blogged and emailed all over the world — “Giant Skeleton Unearthed!” — and it’s been enjoying a revival in 2007.”
As seen here and here, a similar image was also used on various online platforms in different contexts. In these articles, authors reported that the skeleton was found in Niger, in the Sahara desert. Image credit was given to Mike Hettwer.
PesaCheck has examined the Facebook post with an image claiming to be of a 25-metre skeleton that was found in Gojjam, the Amhara region of Ethiopia, and found it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*6Wt4UYSY7PdTpMa-