URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-the-sudanese-military-controlling-a-town-in-ethiopia-3d05169c401c
FALSE: This image does not show the Sudanese military controlling a town in Ethiopia | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-05-27T10:25:21.256Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image claiming to show the Sudanese military controlling a town in Ethiopia is FALSE.
The post in Amharic claims, in part: “Breaking: Heavy fighting is currently underway and the Sudanese military has controlled a town near Metemma”.
“Fellow residents in the area, who are from Sudan, have enthusiastically welcomed the Sudanese military that crossed the border and controlled the area,” the post adds.
The post further alleges that the Sudanese have claimed border territory saying, “Al-Fashaga belongs to us”.
Metemma, also known as Metemma Yohannes, is a town in northwestern Ethiopia on the border with Sudan. It is located in the Gondar Zone of Amhara Regional State of Ethiopia.
Al-Fashaga is a disputed area along the Ethiopia-Sudan border, where the north-west of Ethiopia’s Amhara region meets Sudan’s breadbasket in Gedaref state — a fertile area predominantly settled on by Ethiopians.
This border conflict has created intense tensions between the two countries in addition to the on-going dispute over the use of the waters of the River Nile, raising concerns it could lead to military conflict.
An article published by Institute for Security Studies reports that the potential border war between the two countries, if it happened, would destabilise both nations and the entire region.
Though there has been escalating tension on the Ethio-Sudan border, the post claiming to show images of the Sudanese military controlling a town in Ethiopian territory is not true.
A search result shows that the picture used in the post captures the Malian soldiers celebrating after a mutiny in August 2020, and has been used in multiple news reports.
The picture was featured in an Al Jazeera news report titled, “Mali president resigns after military mutiny”, published on August 19, 2020.
The report highlights the political uncertainty that Mali faced after the military toppled former President Ibrahim Keita.
PesaCheck has investigated an image shared on Facebook claiming to show the Sudanese military controlling a town in Ethiopian territory, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*MZYWocF1nAjWeYXI