URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-an-airstrike-on-tplf-training-camps-6d77d3acf837
FALSE: These images do not show an airstrike on TPLF training camps | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-10-27T07:05:09.212Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with images claiming to show an airstrike that destroyed training camps belonging to the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) is FALSE.
The photo is accompanied by Afaan Oromo text that translates as; “Breaking News: Our heroic Air Force attacked the training ground of the terrorist (sic) TPLF. Derbe Kerbe (Zana), Dengolat, and Agiba are the training areas of TPLF that were hit today.”
Fighting resumed between forces from Ethiopia’s northern region of Tigray and central government forces around the town of Kobo on 24 August 2022, breaking a five-month truce declared in March 2022.
In early October 2022, Ethiopia’s federal government and Tigray fighters said they had accepted an African Union (AU) invitation to participate in peace talks in South Africa. The AU invited the rival parties to negotiations aimed at ending the two-year conflict that has left thousands of civilians dead.
PesaCheck reviewed the images and found them to be untrue.
Reverse image search results here and here show that the photos are not of an airstrike on TPLF training camps as claimed.
The first image was published on Pinterest with a description that reads: “RAF Harrier GR9 ‘Knife Edge’”. The picture was picked from Flickr and was taken in April 2010, years before the crisis in Ethiopia began.
The second image was published on the Propakistani website on 5 April 2019 alongside an article titled: “Abhinandan’s Father Calls Pakistan’s F-16 a Real Threat For India”.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with images claiming to show an airstrike that destroyed training camps belonging to the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*ULUhxTrN03NWFBOy