URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-the-eritrean-army-seizing-rama-city-3316f3f8f925
FALSE: These images do not show the Eritrean army seizing Rama city | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-11-18T08:09:04.092Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post claiming to show images of the Eritrean army controlling Rama city in Ethiopia is FALSE.
“Today, the Eritrean army has taken full control of Rama and 4 other strategic locations. And the army is advancing towards Adwa. The Eritrean army did not face much resistance while it was advancing, but two of its soldiers were wounded. However, the damage caused on the TPLF militants is severe,” parts of the post in the Amharic language reads.
“Around Rama, 117 TPLF members were killed and 230 were captured. Many weapons that were used by the TPLF were seized by the Eritrean force. Since the Eritrean army occupies key and strategic places without much resistance, it is expected that the army will easily enter into cities like Shire, Axum, Adwa and Mekelle within a few days,” the post added.
There are four images that accompany the claim under investigation. However, Google reverse image search results as seen here, here, and here reveal that three of the images are not related to the current situation in Ethiopia while one of them is an old photo.
The first image shows the graduation ceremony of Eritreans after taking academic, military, and political training at the National Service Training Center in Sawa. The image was published on the Horn of Africa website on 14 August 2021.
The second image exhibits the Eritrean army in Sawa. The image was uploaded on the Madote Eritrea website five years ago to support an article with the title “Sawa and the New Year’s Festivity.”
The third image shows when final year Eritrean students took part in military training. The image was published on the BBC website on 8 June 2016.
The fourth image was posted on Twitter along with other pictures on 23 February 2021.
Although there were reports, as seen here and here, that indicate the involvement of Eritrean troops in the Tigray war, which started a year ago in November 2020, the images under investigation do not show Eritrean troops who took part in the Tigray war of Ethiopia.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post claiming to share images that show the Eritrean army controlling Rama city in Ethiopia and found them to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*ku7viSazX_1E2aEf