URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-photos-are-not-of-ex-nigerian-president-obasanjo-storming-electoral-agencys-offices-d47564b74972
FALSE: These photos are not of ex-Nigerian President Obasanjo storming electoral agency’s offices | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-03-13T09:50:24.104Z

Listen
Share
This image on Twitter supposedly of former Nigerian President Olesegun Obasanjo storming the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) offices is FALSE.
The tweet, which was posted on 26 February 2023, a day after the Nigerian elections, is accompanied by a collage of the photos of Obasanjo, INEC chairperson Mahmood Yakubu and a crowd.
The collage has also been shared here with the same claim.
Obasanjo, according to the tweet, stormed the INEC offices in Abuja and had with him the original election results from all 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).
The ex-President had earlier endorsed Labour Party candidate Peter Obi for the presidency in what has been described as Nigeria’s most tightly-contested election.
However, a news report on 26 February 2023 indicates that only Ekiti State’s results had been declared by late that day. Results from other states were pending due to logistical challenges and security concerns. It is, therefore, unlikely that Obasanjo obtained the results.
Further, a Google reverse image search of the main image of Obasanjo in the collage, brings up this article with the same picture as its lead photo. The article is dated March 2019 and refers to this tweet from the day before, which has the same picture.
Similarly, a reverse search of the second image of Obasanjo brings up this picture published in a December 2022 article, months before the 2023 election.
Additionally, Yakubu’s photo precedes the election as a reverse search of the image brings up this report by bbc.com, dated 1 January 2023.
PesaCheck has looked into an image on Twitter supposedly of former Nigerian President Olesegun Obasanjo storming the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) offices with poll results and found it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*TCNlbvZJiUxJ3vFq