URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-dont-show-ethiopian-air-force-attacking-tplf-at-agula-camp-538658ff7c94
FALSE: These images don’t show Ethiopian Air Force attacking TPLF at Agula camp | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-11-18T08:21:31.711Z

Listen
Share
This image shared on Facebook claiming to show the Ethiopian Air Force attacking Agula military camp in the Tigray region is FALSE.
The post in Amharic tanslates, “Our air force has taken action and bombarded the Agula military camp”, reads in part. “Ethiopia shall win”, it adds.
Agula is a town in the southern part of Tigray regional state in Ethiopia.
On November 04, 2021, Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed led citizens to commemorate one year of the conflict between government forces and the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF). The conflict expanded to other neighboring regions of Amhara and Afar while causing devastating humanitarian and political crises.
There are reports of government air forces carrying out multiple airstrikes targeting TPFL forces and their military facilities since mid October 2021.
Although the war has continued in northern Ethiopia, the post that claims to show the air force attacking Agula military camp in Tigray region is untrue.
Reverse image search result for the first image indicates that it shows the Pakistan Air Force (PAF) in 2019. The image was initially featured in the Times of Islamabad in February 2019 and the caption says it shows PAF fighter jets scrambling at the Line of Control, a military control line between Pakistan and India. It appears that this image has been digitally manipulated, and the Ethiopian flag added to the jet’s tail.
Reverse image searches for the second and third images, as seen here and here, yields results of United States (US) air force demonstrations. According to the captions the first photo shows US Air Force pilot, Maj. Kristin Wolfe performing aerobatics during the Reno Air Races at Reno, Nevada on September 19, 2021. Copyright for the image, which is also featured on Defense One website, belongs to the US Air Force and Technical Sergeant Nicholas Myers.
The third image, also from the Reno Air Races, also features Air Force Maj. Wolfe performing an aerial manoeuvre in a Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II (F-35A) jet on the same date.
PesaCheck has investigated images shared on Facebook claiming to show the Ethiopian Air Force attacking TPLF camp in Agula, Tigray region and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*C0GsNFfKAIpiJf8b