URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-on-facebook-does-not-show-top-officials-of-the-tigray-peoples-liberation-front-71ec0c13989b
FALSE: This image on Facebook does not show top officials of the Tigray People’s Liberation Front being arrested | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-03-01T18:18:51.113Z

Listen
Share
A picture shared on Facebook claiming to show the arrest of Tigray People Liberation Front (TPLF) leaders, is FALSE.
The screengrab of men, in what could be military attire, is accompanied by claims that the image shows the arrest of Debretshion Gebremichael, a former president of Tigray regional state and Getachew Reda, a senior member of the TPLF executive committee and advisor to the former president.
The post claims the two were smoked out from the cave they are hiding in during an operation conducted by the Ethiopian Special Federal Police Force.
The post attributes this information from TIKVAH, a Telegram channel with a huge following of over 1.5 million members in Ethiopia. However, no information about this incident is available on the said Telegram channel.
In December 2020, the government offered a 10 million birr ($260,000) reward to anyone with information on the location of fugitive TPLF leaders. This followed the issue of arrest warrants by the Ethiopian Federal Police for more than 96 army generals and officials in the wake of the conflict in Tigray region in November that year.
Mr Gebremichael and Mr Reda were among top TPLF officials on the list of arrest warrants, but their whereabouts and those of other officials remain unknown. Meanwhile, the military announced it killed 15 and captured eight rebel leaders.
A reverse image search on Google, however, exposes that the picture has been used as a thumbnail for multiple Chinese videos, including this one of an action movie.
PesaCheck has looked into the image shared on Facebook claiming to show the arrest of the top officials of TPLF and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*gEzaxxKotDdheRGj