URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-the-late-prince-philip-pranking-queen-elizabeth-101d81bbf44c
FALSE: This image does not show the late Prince Philip pranking Queen Elizabeth | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-04-26T07:23:27.884Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook purportedly showing the late Duke of Edinburgh Prince Philip pranking Queen Elizabeth II by dressing as a palace guard is FALSE.
The text accompanying the image says that the Duke of Edinburgh loved to make his wife — the Queen — laugh, adding “that’s the secret to a long life and marriage”.
The photo was shared following the death of Prince Philip, on April 9, 2021. His funeral took place on April 17, 2021, at St George’s Chapel, Windsor.
The post with the claim was shared here, here and here.
However, a Google reverse image search reveals that the image was among pictures that the Daily Mail published capturing the Queen’s favourite moments with her husband — Prince Philip.
The Daily Mail caption says that the Queen and Prince Philip were enjoying the spectacle when a swarm of bees caused concern shortly before the Queen’s Company Review at Windsor Castle in 2003. There is no mention that Prince Philip was imitating a palace guard to amuse the Queen as claimed in the post. The image is credited to the Press Association (PA), one of the leading publications in the United Kingdom. The photo is also published on the PA Images website and is credited to photographer Chris Young.
The BBC published a story about the incident on April 10, 2021, where Mr Young is quoted recalling the moment he captured the image 18 years ago.
Another image taken during the same event was also shared on the Buckingham Palace Twitter timeline describing what the Duke of Edinburgh was wearing as the uniform of the Grenadier Guards, of which he was made colonel in 1975.
The tweet also confirms that the Duke routinely wore the uniform at ceremonial events like the Trooping of the Colour; he did not wear it to amuse the Queen as claimed in the post.
PesaCheck has looked into the image shared on Facebook claiming to show the late Prince Philip pranking Queen Elizabeth by dressing as a palace guard, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*upr_XOk1FD6YyxAi