URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-of-malnourished-people-are-not-from-kenya-9329e606c43f
FALSE: These images of malnourished people are not from Kenya | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-02-17T07:25:49.471Z

Listen
Share
Images of malnourished people posted on Facebook alongside a claim that they are from Eldoret East in Kenya, is FALSE.
The post contains three images and claims they show what the people in Eldoret East are going through, while their leader is traversing the country distributing his “scandalously acquired money”.
The post does not mention the leader by name, only referring to him as “Mr wheelbarrow” and adding that charity begins at home.
The wheelbarrow has become a tool of political symbolism used by Deputy President, William Ruto, and his allies.
A newly formed political party named United Democratic Alliance (UDA), which draws membership from politicians supporting the DP, bears the wheelbarrow as its symbol.
But do the images give a picture of the situation in Eldoret East? PesaCheck conducted a reverse image search on each of the three pictures and found that none of them originates from Eldoret East or anywhere in Kenya.
The search result of the first image brings up a number of articles where it featured, including one by Reuters, published on July 26, 2013. The article is about a $400 million grant by the United Nations to Rwanda to fight poverty and hunger. The caption says that the image was taken 25 miles south of Kisangani, a city in the northeast of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). “Severely malnourished Rwandan refugee children waiting March 28 for food within a makeshift camp,” reads the caption.
The search result of the second image shows the image is held by the online photo repository Getty Images. The caption says it is credited to photographer Andrew Holbrooke, and that it was taken in August 1992, in Baidoa, Somalia. It reads, “A woman carrying her dying child cries out for help at the Red Cross feeding centre in Baidoa during the height of the famine in which more than 300,000 people died of starvation.”
The search results of the final image also leads to Getty Images and is credited to photographer Alexander Joe. The caption says that the image was also taken in 1992, in Baidoa, Somalia.
“A father and his son and an old man wait for food at a CARE feeding centre in Baidoa 09 September 1992. Food has started trickling into Somalia’s remoter rural areas but relief officials say drugs and medical care are desperately needed to stop hundreds of thousands of half-starved Somalis dying of preventable diseases,” reads the caption.
PesaCheck has looked into the images of malnourished people with a claim that they are from Eldoret East in Kenya, and finds it to FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*j3vbQkNXzrYuwSf4