URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-photo-does-not-show-president-uhuru-kenyattas-motorcade-in-kisumu-fa576eff74a4
FALSE: This photo does not show President Uhuru Kenyatta’s motorcade in Kisumu | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-06-09T08:11:16.314Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook claiming to show Kenya’s President Uhuru Kenyatta’s motorcade in Kisumu, is FALSE.
The post claims that the huge crowd pictured in the image was escorting President Kenyatta’s convoy along a highway in Kisumu, northwest of the capital, Nairobi. It also castigates him for disregarding the COVID-19 protocols which prohibit large gatherings.
“Uhuru in Kisumu, a president who doesn’t respect his own orders, he burned (sic) all political gatherings yet he’s the first one breaking the rules,” the post, reads in part.
The image was posted on May 31, 2021, a day before the president presided over the 58th Madaraka Day celebrations at the Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium in Mamboleo, Kisumu County. The celebration commemorates the day Kenya attained internal self-rule.
State House spokesperson Kanze Dena Mararo maintained that the celebrations would be held in strict compliance with the National Covid-19 Containment Protocols. However, footage from the event showed eager crowds thronging the motorcades of President Kenyatta, that of Deputy President William Ruto and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga’s convoy in Kondele, Kisumu.
However, PesaCheck found out that the image in question was not taken during the event and neither does it show the motorcade of President Uhuru Kenyatta. A reverse image search shows the said photo has been online since 2017. The BBC, for instance, used this photo in a news article about opposition protests following the November 2017 disputed elections in Kenya.
A further internet search brings up another article by the New York Times carrying the same image and credited to Getty Images. The image caption indicates that supporters of former Prime Minister Raila Odinga were accompanying his convoy in Nairobi, and not an entourage of President Kenyatta in Kisumu, as claimed in the post.
Mr Odinga’s supporters had gone to welcome him upon his arrival at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport on November 17, 2017, after a trip from the United States.
The image has also been published on the Getty Images website, with a caption stating that Mr Odinga’s welcome party in Nairobi, was broken up after police fired teargas at his supporters.
PesaCheck has looked into the image claiming to show Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta’s motorcade in Kisumu, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*yO0x5xcTQfIIkqgp