URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-imprisoned-activist-jawar-mohammed-receiving-medical-treatment-db52e6f9bcea
FALSE: This image does not show imprisoned activist Jawar Mohammed receiving medical treatment | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-02-27T19:00:37.050Z

Listen
Share
A photo posted on Facebook claiming to show political prisoner Jawar Mohammed receiving medical treatment is FALSE.
The text on the post claims to confirm the activist is in medical care, saying political prisoners were “receiving adequate medical treatment for the first time” and is accompanied by a picture of Mr Mohammed, who appears to be undergoing a health procedure.
The statement on the post, in Afan Oromo language, translates to, “The fact that prisoners have received adequate medical treatment for the first time entails success of Qeerroos [Oromo youth] struggle. Receiving medical treatment alone is not enough; we should struggle until they are released from prison”.
In September 2020, the Ethiopia government filed terrorism charges against Mr Mohammed, Bekele Gerba and other senior opposition leader politicians in the country, leading to their imprisonment.
In late January 2021, the prisoners began a hunger strike to protest their arrest and mistreatment of their supporters and family members who attended their court hearings. It has been reported that their health condition is deteriorating.
The prisoners requested treatment at private hospitals but on February 23, 2021, their lawyers communicated that the Ethiopian Federal Supreme Court had overturned the ruling of the Federal High Court and rejected the request, ordering instead that the group get treatment in Kaliti Prison where they are being held.
The image posted on Facebook claims to show the treatment of the prisoners are receiving
However, Google reverse image search results here and here reveal that the photo was taken in October 2019, as Mr Mohammed was donating blood during a month-long national blood donation campaign aimed at collecting 300,000 units of blood.
PesaCheck has looked into the claim that an image shared on Facebook shows political prisoner Jamal Mohammed receiving medical treatment and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*C_kVEHpbDOJcYOy-