URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-photo-is-not-of-a-kibabii-university-student-fighting-a-lecturer-a39aa865022e
FALSE: This photo is not of a Kibabii University student fighting a lecturer | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-02-13T10:55:04.131Z

Listen
Share
This tweet claiming to show a photo of a Kibabii University student fighting a lecturer over a boyfriend is FALSE.
“Fourth year student in Kibabii university fights her lecturer over boyfriend.This is after the girl found a conversation between the lecturer and her boyfriend on whatsapp. The lecturer had sent the boy her nudes with a caption ‘all this is for you’,” reads the tweet.
Kibabii University is a public university in Bungoma, Kenya.
A photo of the purported teacher and student is also attached to the tweet. A video of the altercation is also in the comments. In the video, the learner exchanges vulgar words with the teacher in a classroom.
At some point, the student slams the door on the teacher. It is at that point that the confrontation becomes physical. The student hits the teacher in the school’s hallway until the two fall on the ground.
In another video, the student pins the lecturer to the ground until someone intervenes by pulling the student away. In the second video, the enraged learner, even after being separated from the teacher, continues to shout at the tutor as other students record the incident on cameras.
We performed a reverse search of the claim image that led us to this article by WSB TV, a television station in Atlanta, Georgia, in the United States. The article confirms that the incident happened at Heritage High School in Georgia, USA.
According to the article, the teacher in the video is recovering from a broken leg after being attacked by a student at Heritage High School. A keyword search on Google shows that the incident was reported by other publications, as seen here, here, here, and here.
This Fox 5 Atlanta article says the incident happened on 26 January 2023, and the student, who is in ninth grade, was taken into the custody of the Department of Juvenile Justice and charged with aggravated battery.
A GoFundMe account has now been opened to support the English Language Arts teacher Tiwana Turner, and so far, $22,828 has been donated towards her medication.
PesaCheck has looked into a tweet claiming to show a photo of a Kibabii University student fighting her lecturer and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*b2b2iO2CH-ze_qdO