URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-depict-people-cheering-prime-minister-abiy-ahmed-leading-troops-to-the-1e9d6d37488b
FALSE: This image does not depict people cheering Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed leading troops to the battlefront | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-12-06T07:50:11.727Z

Listen
Share
This image shared on Facebook claiming to show people cheering Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, as he headed to the battlefront on 23 November 2021 is FALSE.
The post in Amharic language has a headline that says, “The Prime Minister has headed to the warfront with honour”.
“People were cheering Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed at squares in Addis Ababa while he was heading to the battlefront,” the post reads.
The image shows military personnel in uniform escorting a convoy of vehicles through a walled street as onlookers watch and take photographs from the roadside.
On 24 November 2021, Ethiopia government Communications Service minister, Legesse Tulu, announced that Abiy would be commanding the army from the battlefront “to eliminate TPLF forces”. The prime minister decided to join the war front and lead the army on 22 November 2021, after the Tigray forces threatened to march to Addis Ababa.
The post claims to show people in Addis Ababa cheering the prime minister as he was heading to the battlefront following this announcement.
However, PesaCheck has found out that the image does not show crowds gathered in squares in the capital in support of Abiy as he joined battlefront, as claimed.
Reverse image search on Google provides that the photo was captured in 2019 and has been used in multiple stories. The image was captured on 12 December 2019, when crowds gathered to welcome the premier upon his return from Oslo, Norway, after he received the Nobel Peace Prize on 10 December 2019.
A hero’s welcome was accorded to Abiy, media reported, as major roads from Bole to National Palace were closed and people cheered the prime minister upon his return.
The image was used by an activist on 12 December 2021 along with a post in Afaan Oromoo, describing the welcome event. The post translates: “The republican guard was ready to protect the Prime Minister. We were shouting ‘we love you Abichu’ along with Qeerroo and Qarree [Oromo youth]”.
PesaCheck has looked into the Facebook post claiming to show an image of people cheering Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed as he headed to battlefront and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*DqcBn2y4mEfbFHCA