URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-the-ethiopian-defence-force-drones-in-the-tigray-region-airspace-1c3a8113b30
FALSE: These images do not show the Ethiopian Defence Force drones in the Tigray region airspace | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-10-05T08:43:05.946Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with images claiming to show Ethiopian Defence Force drones in the Tigray region’s airspace is FALSE.
The Amharic text posted along with the images translates as; “Breaking: The Ethiopian Air Force deployed new drones armed with missiles and bombs in the air of Tigray, which can hit their targets in light or dark, in all weathers, just to destroy the TPLF group, which is a cancer of the country. ”
Fighting between the Ethiopian Federal Government forces and Tigrayan fighters resumed on 24 August 2022, after a five-month truce fell through.
On 26 August 2022, an air raid killed at least four people, including two children, in the capital of Ethiopia’s northern Tigray region, with the federal government accusing the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) forces of the affront.
PesaCheck reviewed the post and found it to be untrue.
A reverse image search is shown as seen here, here, here, and here, providing the context for these images.
The first image was published on 17 June 2022 by the SM news website in the article titled, “EW complex shot down a British drone between the coast of Syria and Cyprus”.
The picture also appears in Shutterstock image repository, and is captioned: “Szczecin, Poland-May 2021: Bayraktar Akıncı, High-Altitude Long-Endurance, Unmanned Combat Aerial Vehicle, being manufactured by the Turkish .3D illustration.”
The second image shows Turkey’s indigenous Akinci combat drone. The image was published on The Defense Post website under the article headlined, “Turkey’s Akinci Drone Strikes Sea Target for First Time.” The article is dated 28 April 2022 and the image credited to Baykar.
The third image shows an Akinci UCAV landing on a runway in Northwest Tekirdag province, Turkey, on 22 April 2021. The image is credited to the IHA and has been published by different websites in 2021, describing the Turkish aircraft’s features.
The last image was published on 17 September 2021 on the Oryx website in an article titled, “Forget The A-10: The Bayraktar Akıncı Flying Tank Destroyer Has Arrived”.
PesaCheck has looked into the Facebook post with images claiming to show drones belonging to Ethiopian Defence Force in the Tigray region airspace and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*6zwH5pDoXPZaq7nL