URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-arent-of-presidents-nana-akufo-addo-and-emmerson-mnangagwa-driving-coaches-463ef98c535e
FALSE: These images aren’t of Presidents Nana Akufo-Addo and Emmerson Mnangagwa driving coaches with African presidents headed to Queen Elizabeth II’s funeral | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-09-29T15:40:04.558Z

Listen
Share
Tweets claiming to show Ghanaian President Nana Akufo-Addo and Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa, driving one of the coaches ferrying African presidents to Queen Elizabeth II’s funeral are FALSE.
One of the tweets has an image of African presidents aboard the coach that President Akufo-Addo supposedly drove.
A reverse image search returns an article by Nation Africa containing the image. According to the article, the coach was provided by the United Kingdom government for the leaders attending the burial of Queen Elizabeth II at Westminster Abbey.
“Nana Addo drove one of the coaches that carried african (sic) presidents (lesser leaders) into Buckingham Palace,” the tweet reads.
Another tweet claims it was President Mnangagwa, who drove the coach and even shows him behind the steering wheel.
“These African Presidents had to get Munangagwa to volunteer and drive them for the Queen’s burial. They deserved it nonsense who invited them?” the tweet reads.
The images were shared amidst mixed reactions over the ‘apparent mistreatment’ of African leaders, with comparisons drawn with President Joe Biden’s treatment. The US president was allowed to attend the same ceremony aboard his limousine.
“They had to even find a driver among themselves,” one of the tweets quipped.
However, it was not only African leaders who were ferried in a bus. A video published by Manila Bulletin Online shows non-African leaders disembarking from a bus which had ferried them to the funeral.
Indeed, the images showing Presidents Mnangagwa and Akufo-Addo were not taken in London as claimed.
A reverse image search of the image showing President Akufo-Addo brings up an article by yen.com.gh dated 22 February 2019. The photo caption explains that President Akufo-Addo was driving one of the 140 vehicles he presented to the Ghana Armed Forces.
“The President made the presentation, at an event at Burma Camp, headquarters of the Ghana Armed Forces,” the article reads.
A reverse image search of the image showing Mnangagwa returns an article by nehandaradio.com dated 17 April 2019. The president’s picture was taken during the commissioning of buses belonging to Zimbabwe United Passenger Company (ZUPCO), a public transport company, in Belvedere, Harare.
PesaCheck has examined tweets with images claiming to show Presidents Nana Akufo-Addo and Emmerson Mnangagwa driving African presidents to Queen Elizabeth II’s funeral and finds them to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*IUAPH3bbv5jXrGmp