URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-bags-belonging-to-africans-who-died-in-the-mediterranean-sea-1a2aded8e3a3
FALSE: This image does not show bags belonging to Africans who died in the Mediterranean sea | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-12-20T12:19:40.359Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook claiming to show “bags of Africans who died while trying to cross the Mediterranean sea,” is FALSE.
“This is a museum located on the island of Lampedusa in Italy,” the headline of the post in Amharic reads.
“The museum depicts the bags of Africans who died while trying to cross the Mediterranean sea to reach Europe. On the gate of the museum, it reads, ‘every bag has its own history’,” the post adds.
A report by the International Organization for Migration (IOM) records that the number of people who died while trying to cross the Mediterranean Sea nearly doubled in the first half of 2021.
“At least 1,146 people died attempting to reach Europe by sea in the first six months of 2021,” the report reads.
Data released by Statista, an online statistical data service, reveals that the number of recorded deaths of migrants from sub-Saharan Africa in the Mediterranean Sea from 2019 to 2021 also shows an increase.
However, the image we are looking into does not show bags belonging to African immigrants who drowned while trying to cross the Mediterranean displayed in an Italian museum, as claimed.
Google reverse image search results reveal that the picture shows an exhibition conducted in the US in 2017.
The image was shared by Cecilia Annabella Gorgon and was taken during an exhibition titled “State of Exception”, in February 2017 and shows backpacks left behind in the desert by undocumented migrants on their journey into the US.
The exhibition was initiated in 2013 collaboratively by scholars and artists at the University of Michigan Institute for the Humanities.
Moreover, a video broadcast on Facebook on 3 February 2021 during the “State of Exception” exhibition shows the bags stacked on a wall. The collaborators who created the exhibition explained that each one of the bags represents a human being and is symbolic of the person who carried it.
PesaCheck has looked into an image shared on Facebook claiming to show bags belonging to African immigrants who died while trying to cross the Mediterranean sea displayed in an Italian museum and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*zrTTBTEyMkodVOXX