URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-statues-of-hindu-deities-discarded-for-not-protecting-people-72f1f77e5dfa
FALSE: These images do not show statues of Hindu deities discarded for not protecting people | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-05-28T11:33:01.038Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with images claiming to show statues of Hindu deities discarded by disappointed worshippers is FALSE.
The post claims the deities were discarded after they failed to protect worshippers against ‘the virus’. The first image is a wide shot taken near a bridge with what appears to be more of waste than idols, lining up the bank of the river.
The second image shows a statue of a god floating in a river, while the third image shows numerous idols scattered across a pavement and street. A motorbike can be seen parked on the street strewn with the statues, as well as a few people walking in the background.
The post was shared at a time when the Asian country is battling a deadly COVID-19 wave. Reports indicate that daily cases started dropping from 400, 000 at the beginning of May 2021, to 208, 921 on May 26, 2021.
Although India has had one of the highest death rates owing to the pandemic, PesaCheck has found that the images do not show religious statues being discarded by despondent Hindu faithful as claimed.
Reverse image search results of the photo showing what could be trash on the river bank reveal the photo features on scoopwhoop.com. The online media company published an article titled, ‘For The First Time In 100 Years, Delhi Did Not Immerse Idols In The Yamuna During Durga Puja’.
The article ran on October 9, 2019, and noted that annual festivals left rivers cluttered and the immersion of idols caused water pollution. Residents of Delhi refrained from the practice that year. Instead of immersing the idols into the Yamuna river in Delhi, adherents directed the statues into artificial ponds created around the city for this purpose, the article explains.
A reverse image search of the statue of a god floating in a river brings up an article by Patrikai.com published in 2019, way before the first COVID-19 outbreak was reported in Wuhan, China, in December the same year.
The article describes the imposition of a punitive fine by the Indian government against those who violate the ban against immersion of idols in the River Ganges.
A similar article ran in the India Times on October 3, 2019, also containing the image in question.
The river is believed to be one of the holiest in the country and, according to the article, hundreds of idols are immersed in it as part of major religious festivals such as Dussehra, Durga Puja, and Diwali.
PesaCheck found the image which shows a motorbike in the middle of idols in an August 2019 tweet by Indian Administrative Service officer, Vijay Nehra. Mr Nehra lauds citizens in Ahmedabad, the largest city in the Indian state of Gujarat, for heeding the directive against immersing idols in the river.
“Something amazing is happening in Ahmedabad today. Ordinary citizens have decided to keep Sabarmati river clean. Instead of immersing Dashama idols in the river, they have respectfully left them on the banks! Thousands and Thousands of them. Unbelievable change,” reads the tweet in part.
PesaCheck has looked into the images claiming to show Hindu deities discarded by disappointed worshippers who claim the gods have failed to protect them against ‘the virus’ and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*_2AxDBFtfzUhS0ZF