URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-pictures-do-not-show-artillery-used-in-the-military-confrontation-between-ethiopia-ca7f180dd3f5
FALSE: These pictures do not show artillery used in the military confrontation between Ethiopia and Sudan | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-03-10T14:46:15.067Z

Listen
Share
Images in a Facebook post claiming to show artillery used during military confrontations between Ethiopia and Sudan, are FALSE.
The post further claims that a battle that took place on February 28, 2021, saw heavy artillery employed by both sides, and resulted in Sudan occupying multiple areas near the border.
The post, written in the Afan Oromo language, translates: “War between Ethiopia and Sudan accompanied by heavy artillery and fighting jets has erupted today. Sudan has taken control over border areas including Barakat, Al-Fashag and others with about 110km length from the border”.
Ethiopia and Sudan share a long boundary of 744 km, which has been the subject of controversy between the two for decades. The dispute originates from the colonial era when Sudan was under the control of the British Empire. An agreement was reached in 2008, allowing Ethiopian farmers to continue tilling the land at al-Fashqa, without surrendering Sudan’s claim to the territory, which is at the heart of the controversy.
Reports say that the long-standing territorial claim has renewed fears of Ethiopia and Sudan becoming embroiled in a new regional war. In December 2020, Sudan’s foreign minister said the army had restored control over all lands along the border that had been taken over by Ethiopian farmers.
Consequently, Ethiopia and Sudan traded words, each taking a hard stance in the border dispute, but the Sudan Tribune, on February 23, 2021, reported that the Ethiopian army had regained control of the border area previously captured by Sudan’s military force.
The post with the claim on Facebook, accompanied by different pictures of military artillery purportedly used in the war between the two countries, makes reference to the ongoing border conflict. However, no independent report is provided to support the claim of a battle, nor have any of the parties in the conflict said anything in this regard.
Additionally, a reverse image search of the first photo — a blurry picture of a military tank as seen here, brings up different YouTube videos, including one dated May 2020, almost a year before the claimed war.
A search of the second and third image yield no results, but similarly appear on thumbnails of YouTube videos dated October 2020 and August 2020, respectively.
The photo of jet fighters was featured in an article on March 26, 2015, about Saudi Arabia’s military army equipment as reported by Agence France-Presse.
PesaCheck has looked into pictures shared on Facebook claiming to show artillery used during a military clash between Ethiopia and Sudan, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*vm3U-ke5IgTTLdYJ