URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-photo-does-not-show-a-presser-by-uss-department-of-defence-announcing-an-airstrike-7af1cca87dbb
FALSE: This photo does not show a presser by US’s Department of Defence announcing an airstrike against Ethiopia | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-03-15T13:29:33.689Z

Listen
Share
A post shared on Facebook claiming to show a press conference by the US Department of Defence announcing an airstrike against Ethiopia is FALSE.
The post, shared on March 07, 2021, in Afan Oromo language translates to: “US Department of Defence through its statement made from the president’s office announced that it would carry out a military strike against Ethiopia after 15 minutes. It further announced that the strike would be carried out by the air force. The source of this news is the Washington Post.”
The post is accompanied by a picture in which US Education Secretary Miguel Cardona is seen addressing the press with US President Joe Biden seated in the background. The words “Office of the President Elect” can be seen in the room’s backdrop.
However, an official press statement by the U.S Department of State titled “Atrocities in Ethiopia Tigray Region”, which was released on February 27, 2021, expressed grave concern over the reported atrocities and the overall deteriorating situation in the Tigray region of Ethiopia.
“We strongly condemn the killings, forced removals and displacements, sexual assaults, and other extremely serious human rights violations and abuses by several parties that multiple organizations have reported in Tigray,” the press statement reads in part.
Additionally, as an essential first step to end the atrocities in Ethiopia, the US called for an immediate withdrawal of Eritrean forces and Amhara regional forces from Tigray.
Nevertheless, the Ethiopian government through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs rejected the call by the US to withdraw Amhara and Eritrean forces from the Tigray region, stating that it is an issue to be decided by the Addis Ababa government, not a foreign power.
Despite this, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on March 10, 2021 told a House of Representatives Foreign Affairs Committee hearing that Eritrean forces in Ethiopia’s northern Tigray region must withdraw, saying the situation is unacceptable and must change.
Though the US has been mounting pressure on the Ethiopian government with regards to the situation in the Tigray region, the post claiming the US Department of Defence has announced the launch of an airstrike against Ethiopia is not true.
A reverse image search on Google reveals that the picture which the post claims was taken during the announcement of an airstrike against Ethiopia is not in any way related to the US Department of Defence. The image was captured on December 23, 2020 as Miguel Cardona was giving a speech following his nomination as Education secretary by US President Biden.
The same photo was also shared on President Biden’s Twitter page on December 24, 2020, a day after Cardona’s nomination as Education secretary.
Moreover, though the post claimed that the source of the news is the Washington Post, a detailed review of the newspaper’s reporting on Ethiopia during the month of March shows that there is no mention of the airstrike against Ethiopia on their website.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post that claims to show a press conference by the US Department of Defence announcing an airstrike against Ethiopia and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*lz9g2C2Rgf4e-OrF