URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-ethiopias-political-prisoners-on-oxygen-therapy-a2cdb785614c
FALSE: This image does not show Ethiopia’s political prisoners on oxygen therapy | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-03-11T06:36:45.373Z

Listen
Share
A photo shared on Facebook claiming to show Ethiopia’s imprisoned opposition leaders on oxygen support as part of medical treatment at Landmark Hospital in Addis Ababa, is FALSE.
The text on the post reads in part, “Our heroes are receiving oxygen therapy as part of medical treatment at Landmark Hospital,” which is a private hospital located in Addis Ababa.
Oxygen therapy refers to supplemental oxygen given to people who have conditions that make it difficult to get enough oxygen from breathing naturally. Depending on the method used, the oxygen used for treatment is mostly stored in tanks or in a pressurized chamber and delivered using tubes.
Activist and politician Jawar Mohammed and several other imprisoned opposition leaders went on a hunger strike in January 2021, protesting the mistreatment of their family members and supporters. The political leaders were arrested and charged with terrorism in July 2020 after 150 people were killed in protests following the murder of popular singer Hachalu Hundessa.
The prolonged hunger strike reportedly took a toll on the prisoners, leading to the cancellation of a court hearing when the defendants were found to be too weak to attend, raising further concerns about their wellbeing.
The prisoners requested treatment at a private facility, but on February 19, 2021, the attorney general appealed at the Federal Supreme Court to have this request denied on the grounds of public security.
On February 23, the Supreme Court dismissed the attorney general’s appeal to transfer the prisoners to a government hospital, but ruled that they be treated within Kality Prison, where they are being held.
However, the defense team appealed the Supreme Court’s decision and on March 1, 2021, the defendants were granted access to treatment at private medical facilities.
The prisoners were thus transferred to Landmark Hospital on March 2, for treatment.
The post claiming to show prisoners on oxygen therapy was posted against this background.
But a reverse image search on Google reveals that the picture used is from April 2020, and shows a COVID-19 patient in France wearing a non-invasive ventilator.
This is not the first time such a claim regarding the treatment of the imprisoned opposition leaders has been posted online. PesaCheck investigated another image posted on Facebook claiming to show Mr Mohammed “receiving adequate medical treatment for the first time” and found the photo was taken as he donated blood during a past blood drive.
PesaCheck has looked into a photo shared on Facebook claiming to show opposition political prisoners on oxygen support as part of medical treatment at Landmark Hospital in Addis Ababa, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*ncWr4fRMcn2hGNWP