URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-photos-dont-show-the-ethiopian-national-defense-force-destroying-tplf-trucks-in-27d9d95af7
FALSE: These photos don’t show the Ethiopian National Defense Force destroying TPLF trucks in Tembien desert in September 2022 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-09-29T14:00:32.897Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with images claiming to show two trucks belonging to Tigrayan forces destroyed by the Ethiopian Air Force in Tembien desert is FALSE.
The Amharic post loosely translates as; “Militants of TPLF who were transported by two heavy trucks to lowlands of Tembien were destroyed by our Air Force, today around 1:00 PM.”
TPLF is an acronym for Tigray People’s Liberation Front whose troops are fighting the Ethiopian federal forces in the Tigray region.
The post is accompanied by two images of a drone and of trucks that had collided.
Tembien is a historical mountainous area in Tigray categorised as one of the former provinces of Ethiopia.
Ethiopia faces renewed fighting between government forces and Tigrayan troops following the cessation of a five-month truce. Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed’s government and the Tigrayan leadership have traded accusations of undermining efforts to end the war that started in November 2020.
However, a reverse image search on Google established that the claimed images do not show TPLF troops destroyed in September 2022.
The first image was published on the Lithuanian National Radio and Television website on 7 June 2022. The caption reads: “Turkey’s Bayraktar TB2 drone”. The image is credited to Vida press.
The second image shows an accident involving trucks in Bako Tibe, West Shoa, Oromia, in January 2022. The picture was published on the BBC News Afaan Oromoo website.
PesaCheck has investigated a Facebook post with images claiming to show two trucks belonging to the Tigrayan forces destroyed by the Ethiopian Air Force in Tembien desert and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*SxbO7lEJyZxlo7yT