URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-germany-based-drivers-protesting-high-fuel-prices-by-abandoning-56109763af6d
FALSE: This image does not show Germany-based drivers protesting high fuel prices by abandoning their cars | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-09-28T13:35:54.675Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post claiming to show an image of drivers in the city of Bremen, Germany, protesting high fuel prices by abandoning their cars on the road is FALSE.
The image was shared by the Facebook user on 16 September 2021, just two days after Kenya’s Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority (EPRA) adjusted fuel prices upwards.
The Facebook post claims that drivers in Germany abandoned their cars and walked home in 2012. This allegedly caused a traffic snarl-up that forced the German finance minister to reduce fuel prices immediately, according to the post.
An image of cars in several rows with people standing beside some of the vehicles is attached.
To determine the authenticity of the image, we performed a reverse image search which revealed that the picture was not taken in Germany.
One of the search results shows that the image was taken on 30 September 2012 in Shenzhen city, south China. The photo’s description reveals these were Chinese holidaymakers standing next to their cars in a long traffic jam on an expressway during the Mid-Autumn Festival.
“Chinese officials estimate more than 85 million travellers hit the road on Sunday (30 September 2012), the first day of an eight-day holiday week, according to China’s state-run media. Many drivers were trying to take advantage of a new policy that waives the toll on expressways during holidays, according to Xinhua. This could have helped boost road traffic by 13% compared with last year’s (2011) holiday, reported the news agency,” reads the caption on alamy.com.
Due to the festivities, motorists experienced a delay on the road and at least one road accident was recorded on the Beijing-Tianjin highway. According to Xinhua news agency, the accident which involved a tour bus killed five Germans and one Chinese national.
The Mid-Autumn Festival, which is also known as the Moon or Mooncake Festival, traditionally falls on the 15th day of the eighth month on the Chinese lunar calendar. The Mid-Autumn Festival is the most important in China after the Chinese New Year and happens around September or October on the Gregorian calendar.
In 2021, the Mid-Autumn Festival fell on 21 September, which resulted in a three-day public holiday from 19–21 September 2021.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post claiming to show an image of drivers in the city of Bremen, Germany, protesting high fuel prices by abandoning their cars on the road and finds it is FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*LzJcenpFcsjYsalm