URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-of-a-huge-rock-in-a-container-is-from-malawi-not-uganda-186bd41cee89
FALSE: This image of a huge rock in a container is from Malawi, not Uganda | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-03-30T14:49:42.745Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post claiming to show officials in Uganda staring at a giant rock placed in a container is FALSE.
The image is accompanied by a caption that reads in part, “Its only in Uganda where you finish clearing your copper containers but only to find painted rocks [sic]”. Additionally, the author of the post questions the procedures of clearing and determining the rate of taxes in the country.
In the image shared alongside the post, three men are seen looking at a huge rock inside a container.
However, a Google reverse image search shows that the picture was taken in Malawi and not Uganda as claimed. The image has been published in several Malawian online publications such as KingAziz.com, Malawi24 and adamabdella.com.
Malawi24 reported that the picture shows Malawi’s Minister of Mining, Rashid Gaffar, accompanied by other officials from the ministry. The report says that the rock contains quartz and was being shipped to China for testing as a sample. The photo was also posted on March 25, 2021, on Malawi Times’ Facebook page.
Further, a tweet by Idriss A. Nassah shows a video of officials inspecting the rock in the container. According to the tweet, the minister is one of the officials in the video inspecting the container of what Chinese investors claim were samples of precious minerals being exported for analysis.
Mr Gaffar told The Times Group that he had stopped the export of a rose quartz mineral rock, weighing 25 tonnes, which officials from his ministry were selling at K2 million and had been earmarked for Asian market.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post claiming to show officials in Uganda staring at a giant rock in a container and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*cr_7Zeh4mSbVPf5h