URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-is-not-a-photo-of-the-eritrean-army-attacking-tplf-forces-in-november-2021-6208c427acf5
FALSE: This is not a photo of the Eritrean army attacking TPLF forces in November 2021 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-12-06T08:03:06.938Z

Listen
Share
This post claiming to show an image of the Eritrean army destroying Tigray forces around Rama in November 2021 is FALSE.
The image was shared on Facebook accompanied by text in Amharic that reads, “The Eritrean defense force is destroying the junta around Rama”
“The Eritrean defense force is attacking the Junta force via Rama. It has controlled many strategic areas by crashing TPLF [Tigray People’s Liberation Front] militants in this attack” the post reads in part.
“The Junta force has suffered a huge loss and left the area” the post adds.
Rama is a town in the central zone of the Tigray region, some 35 km north of Adwa town, which is 7 kilometres from the border with Eritrea.
The war in northern Ethiopia, which started in November 2020, pits the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) against the Ethiopian army and, has expanded from the Tigray region to the Amhara and Afar regions, causing a humanitarian and political crises in the country.
There have been reports of Eritrea’s involvement in the war, fighting alongside the Ethiopian army. As such, the United States imposed sanctions on the Eritrea government and affiliated organisations in November 2021.
However, the claim that Eritrean soldiers destroyed Tigray forces via the Rama route in the Tigray region in November 2021 is not true.
Reverse image search results show that the image being used to advance this claim was taken during the Ethio-Eritrean war. It has been used in multiple stories since then.
The image was taken by Steve Forest/AFP on 22 September 1999, during the Ethio-Eritrean war and archived by Getty images. The picture shows training at the Tsorona front line, south of Asmara.
PesaCheck has investigated an image shared on Facebook claiming to show the Eritrean army destroying Tigray forces around Rama in the Tigray region in November 2021 and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*VCtDWQV-csnhVALf