URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-malnourished-children-in-tigray-region-of-ethiopia-6ddc2380c671
FALSE: This image does not show malnourished children in Tigray region of Ethiopia | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-04-28T10:01:38.267Z

Listen
Share
A picture shared on Facebook claiming to show severely malnourished children in the Tigray region of Ethiopia is FALSE.
The picture is accompanied by a statement that reads, “This shows the current situation in the Tigray Region. The war that aimed at realising one man’s dictatorship has resulted in deadly starvation, although they shamelessly claimed there is no hunger in the region”.
The picture shows two severely malnourished babies in the arms of adults.
Since the armed conflict erupted in Tigray in November 2020, an estimated 4.5 million Ethiopians now need food assistance, according to the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UNOCHA)’ April situation report.
The UN agency records show that over 62,225 refugees have fled to Sudan since the conflict broke out.
In April 2021, the United States and European Union announced additional humanitarian aid of $152 million and £53 million, respectively to scale up aid responses to affected peoples in the Tigray and other areas of Ethiopia.
PesaCheck has found that despite the continuing humanitarian crises, the post claiming to show malnourished children in the Tigray region is not true.
Reverse image search results reveal that the picture of starving children were taken in November 2017 in Somali.
The picture featured in a news article by Daily Voice — a newspaper in Cape Town — with the headline, “26 Somalis die of starvation as Hollywood steps in”. The caption reads: “Malnourished babies are held by their mothers at a feeding center in Mogadishu, Somalia, Feb. 25, 2017”. The photo is credited to the Associated Press (AP) photographer, Farah Warsameh.
PesaCheck has looked into a picture shared on Facebook claiming to show malnourished children in the Tigray region of Ethiopia and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*uXdNGWQnUBDQEcp3