URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-picture-doesnt-show-the-ethiopian-military-attacking-tplf-facilities-in-adi-arkay-bbc7fdd9d0ff
FALSE: This picture doesn’t show the Ethiopian military attacking TPLF facilities in Adi-Arkay | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-10-28T08:22:52.344Z

Listen
Share
A post shared on Facebook claiming to show the Ethiopian Defence Forces destroying the Tigray People’s Liberation Front ‘s (TPLF) military facilities in Adi-Arkay is FALSE.
The post in the Amharic translates, “Our Defense Forces have destroyed Junta’s military logistics and facilities stored in the Adi-Arkay Technic and Vocational School compound by using a tank called ‘general’,” the post reads.
The post directs the audience to a Telegram channel for detailed information.
Adi-Arkay is a woreda (district) in Northern Gonder, in Amhara regional state. It is bordered by the Tigray region in the north.
The war in northern Ethiopia has raged since November 2020 and pits government troops against forces aligned to the TPLF. It has been reported that the Ethiopian government re-launched a military offensive including airstrikes in Mekelle, the capital of Tigray, targeting TPLF facilities.
Though the post claims to show a tank known as “general” destroying TPLF military facilities in Adi-Arkay, PesaCheck has found out that the claim is untrue.
A reverse image search on Google shows that the photo is of a joint military exercise between the US marine corps and the Republic of Korea.
The photo was taken by Anne K. Henry in July 2012 at Tonghyeon-ri in the Republic of Korea.
The image featured in a story titled “US, ROK Marines begin artillery training” published on Haebyong.com, an online resource on marine corps. The report indicates the artillery training was aimed at enhancing the combined capabilities of both countries.
PesaCheck has looked into images shared on Facebook claiming to show the Ethiopian military destroying TPLF facilities in Adi-Arkay and finds them to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*FMO21vnzmSA8v5Ks