URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-a-protester-at-the-lekki-tollgate-in-lagos-nigeria-c6742eeaae3a
FALSE: This image does not show a protester at the Lekki tollgate in Lagos, Nigeria | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-02-25T12:03:18.452Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with a photo of a man facing soldiers on a street and claiming to show a protester at the Lekki tollgate in Lagos, Nigeria is FALSE.
The man has his arms outstretched and seems to be walking towards the line of security officers, who also appear to be advancing towards him. The accompanying post reads, “#Lekkitollgate If I Don’t Fight This Injustice Now, My Children Will Blame Me For Ignoring My Civil Right To Speak Up For Justice #EndSARS”.
The photo with the same caption was also posted on Twitter.
But a Google reverse image search of the photo reveals it was seen online in 2017, in an LA Times slideshow of images showing election protests in Kenya.
The picture was also published in The Times on August 12, 2017, with the caption: “A supporter of the opposition leader Raila Odinga faces off against riot police officers during a protest in Kibera slum, Nairobi”.
It is credited to photographer Dai Kurokawa of the European Pressphoto Agency (EPA).
SARS — the Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Nigerian Police — has been accused of abuses, with citizens calling for its disbandment. The #EndSARS movement started as a Twitter campaign in 2017. In October 2020, after more revelations of abuses by the squad, mass demonstrations were held in many major Nigerian cities, accompanied by outrage on social media.
On October 20, news that the Nigerian army had opened fire on protesters at the Lekki tollgate flooded social media. The attack was filmed in a live Instagram stream by popular Disk Jockey Obianuju Udeh, known as DJ Switch.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with a photo of a man facing a line of soldiers on a street, claiming to show a protester at the Lekki tollgate in Lagos, Nigeria and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*YQQ5BbAKZBWH5LXJ