URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-doesnt-show-the-ethiopian-defence-force-surrounding-towns-of-the-tigray-region-85fc46dbadb6
FALSE: This image doesn’t show the Ethiopian Defence Force surrounding towns of the Tigray Region in September 2022 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-09-16T11:49:37.596Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image used to advance a claim that the Ethiopian Defence Force has surrounded towns in the Tigray region is FALSE.
Published on Facebook on 7 September 2022, the photo has a caption in Amharic translated as; “Spokesperson of TPLF Getachew Reda said ‘help us we are surrounded at Rama, Tserona, Zalambessa, Dallol, and Adigrat by Ethiopian Defence Force.’ He is making a cry for help by saying that we are surrounded by the heroic Defense army, we have no way out and we are worried.”
Fighting between Tigrayan troops and the Ethiopian National Defence Force (ENDF) broke out in Ethiopia’s northern Tigray region on 24 August 2022, disrupting a five-month ceasefire. Both parties blamed each other for the escalation after negotiations to end the conflict, which has raged for almost two years, made little progress.
0n 7 September 2022, Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) spokesperson Getachew Reda tweeted that Eritrean forces were “taking up offensive positions in Rama, Tserona, Zalambessa, and Dallol fronts”.
Fighting between TPLF troops and the Eritrean and Ethiopian Forces had been ongoing for two weeks, Getachew adds in the post.
However, Google reverse image search results show that the photo of the ENDF accompanying the claim has been used online to illustrate different reports.
The image was published on 23 May 2021 on the Garowe online website. The photo was used in an article reporting about the Ethiopian National Defence Force taking position ahead of a planned battle with Al-Shabaab militants.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post claiming to show the Ethiopian Defence Force surrounding the towns of the Tigray region in September 2022 and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*rd_vWzz6_B-zQE46