URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-photo-is-not-of-a-girl-being-caned-in-kuria-kenya-for-resisting-fgm-5a1d1be55bfc
FALSE: This photo is not of a girl being caned in Kuria, Kenya, for resisting FGM | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-02-06T17:53:24.313Z

Listen
Share
This photo on Facebook purportedly of a girl being caned in Kuria, Kenya, for resisting Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) is FALSE.
The picture is of a girl lying ground surrounded by a group of men, two of them holding her, and another one with a cane.
The text accompanying the photo reads: “Directorate of Criminal Investigations — DCI This young girl here was brutally caned using sticks by five men in Kuria County for resisting FGM. This is just a sceengrab [sic] of a trending video which shows the young girl being brutally caned on her bare butt0cks. The ball is now your your (sic) court. These m!screants should not be walking free.”
Kuria is an administrative district in Migori County, south-western Kenya. It is divided into Kuria East and Kuria West and it is among parts of the country where FGM is still prevalent.
According to a report released by The Network for Adolescent and Youth of Africa (NAYA), about 3,000 girls in the region underwent FGM in 2020.
But, is the photo really of a girl being caned for resisting FGM in Kuria?
We performed a reverse search on the image and established that the incident happened in the DRC and not Kenya.
The photo was captured in a story by France 24, with the heading identifying the incident as having happened at Maniema in DRC.
We did a Google translation of the France 24 story headline and established that the photo is of Mai-mai militia men beating a group of women for wearing skirts deemed to be too short.
The photo was also captured in stories published by Yahoo News and UK Daily News, with both publications indicating that the incident happened in DRC
PesaCheck has looked into a photo shared on Facebook purportedly of a girl being caned in Kuria, Kenya, for resisting Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*IAHi_-oHjmaQEnNS