URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-photos-that-claim-to-show-youth-disrupting-raila-odingas-rally-in-embakasi-nairobi-709af6b061f9
FALSE: These photos that claim to show youth disrupting Raila Odinga’s rally in Embakasi, Nairobi are unrelated to the event | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-01-19T07:09:31.893Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with images claiming to show youth disrupting a rally called by former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, to campaign for the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) in Embakasi, Nairobi is FALSE.
The post contains two images, one showing what appears to be Mr Odinga being whisked away by his aides, and has a Getty Images watermark.
The second photo shows a chaotic scene with trails of white smoke associated with teargas rising from the ground where a group of youth are positioned.
“Angry youth disrupt Raila meeting in Embakasi after Raila’s efforts to popularise the BBI,” reads the post in part.
The Facebook post was shared on January 17, 2021, the same day Mr Odinga visited Embakasi, located east of Nairobi’s central business district, for a BBI rally.
The BBI process, an initiative of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga, aims to effect constitutional reforms geared towards ending the repeated cycles of violence associated with general elections.
However, a close look at the images from the rally shows that Mr Odinga was not wearing a suit as shown in the Facebook post in question, but rather a grey long-sleeved shirt and a cream hat.
Additionally, a Google reverse image search of the image showing Mr Odinga fleeing brings up a similar image published by Getty Images. But the image was captured in 2008 and is not related to the BBI campaigns as claimed. The caption reads in part, “Kenyan opposition leader Raila Odinga © runs away from tear gas fired by police during a mass funeral service for some victims of post-election violence in Nairobi 23 January 2008.” The photo is credited to AFP photographer Walter Astrada.
A Google reverse image search of the second image brings up a number of articles published together with the image. One of the articles is by VOA News whose caption of the photo reads, “Residents run from teargas after throwing stones towards Kenyan police officials as they clash at Katwekera village within Kibera slum — a stronghold of opposition leader Raila Odinga — in Nairobi on October 26, 2017.”
The photo is credited to AFP photographer Tony Karumba.
PesaCheck has looked into the images claiming to show youth disrupting former Prime Minister Raila Odinga’s Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) rally in Embakasi, Nairobi, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*DBwK_bZhZWx_7MeF