URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-photos-do-not-show-ugandan-voters-queueing-for-the-2021-elections-9e2e9f87bb1f
FALSE: These photos do not show Ugandan voters queueing for the 2021 elections | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-01-14T13:00:00.112Z

Listen
Share
Two images posted on Twitter claiming to show Ugandan voters queuing to vote during the 2021 general election are FALSE.
Uganda holds its general election on January 14, 2021, to elect the president and members of parliament. Incumbent President Yoweri Museveni, who has ruled the country since 1986, is seeking re-election.
Museveni faces 10 other challengers, the most prominent being the candidate for the National Unity Platform, Robert Kyagulani Ssentamu, popularly known as Bobi Wine.
Research by Pesacheck reveals that the two images have been shared in a misleading context.
Image 1
A reverse image search reveals that the photo shows Ugandans waiting for voting to finish in Kisugu village in Kampala, Uganda during the 2016 general election and not the 2021 elections as the tweet claims.
The photo appears in a 2016 article by the Boston Globe and is credited to Dai Karukowa of EPA.
Image 2
The second photo also shows Ugandan voters queuing during the 2016 general election. The photo appears in a report dated February 18, 2016, published by the BBC. The picture is credited to the Associated Press.
PesaCheck has looked into the authenticity of two pictures shared on Twitter claiming to show voters queuing to vote in Iganga province in Uganda on January 14, 2021, and finds them to be FALSE.
By partnering with Facebook and similar social media platforms, third-party fact-checking organisations like PesaCheck are helping to sort fact from fiction. We do this by giving the public deeper insight and context to posts they see in their social media feeds.
Have you spotted what you think is fake news or false information on Facebook? Here’s how you can report. And, here’s more information on PesaCheck’s methodology for fact-checking questionable content.
This fact-check was written by PesaCheck fact-checker James Okong’o and edited by PesaCheck deputy editor Rose Lukalo. It was approved for publication by managing editor Enock Nyariki.
PesaCheck is East Africa’s first public finance fact-checking initiative. It was co-founded by Catherine Gicheru and Justin Arenstein, and is being incubated by the continent’s largest civic technology and data journalism accelerator: Code for Africa. It seeks to help the public separate fact from fiction in public pronouncements about the numbers that shape our world, with a special emphasis on pronouncements about public finances that shape government’s delivery of Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) public services, such as healthcare, rural development and access to water/sanitation. PesaCheck also tests the accuracy of media reportage. To find out more about the project, visit pesacheck.org.
PesaCheck is an initiative of Code for Africa, through its innovateAFRICA fund, with support from Deutsche Welle Akademie, in partnership with a coalition of local African media and other civic watchdog organisations.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*xyJg9RR0WGpymSvd