URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-picture-does-not-show-chinese-fighter-jets-in-taiwans-airspace-in-august-2022-e2e0f8a5eceb
FALSE: This picture does not show Chinese fighter jets in Taiwan’s airspace in August 2022. | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-08-24T09:52:15.353Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image claiming to show Chinese fighter jets in Taiwan’s airspace in August 2022 is FALSE.
The Amharic translation of the post states: “Chinese army surrounded Taiwan. The J-20 fighter jet is scouting around Taiwan. China’s Eastern 21st Command has left its base and is on its way to Taiwan. Two of China’s fighter jet carrier ships have left their positions and deployed to the operation. China’s Global Times reported that they were only waiting for an order to attack. Now, 21 Chinese military jets have intruded on Taiwan, Al Jazeera reported. And it will shortly be known what kind of attack they will be carrying out”.
The post continues: “The reason for all this trouble is the visit of American Speaker Nancy Pelosi, now she could not leave Taiwan without the permission of China because Taiwan’s airspace is surrounded by China forces. The United States has ordered the movement of its fleet in the Southeast Pacific Ocean. This force includes the American jet carrier Ronald Dragon.”
In early August 2022, the media reported that Chinese fighter aircraft entered Taiwan’s air defence identification zone, after House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi visited the island.
However, Google reverse image search results indicate that the photo claim is not related to Chinese fighter jets surrounding Taiwan.
The Reuters website published the image on 20 January 2022, in the article, “Exclusive: the U.S. seeks a way to speed delivery of new fighter jets to Taiwan.”
The picture’s caption describes these as Taiwan Air Force’s F-16 fighter jets airborne during the annual Han Kuang military exercise at an army base in Hsinchu, northern part of the island on 4 July 2015. The image is credited to Reuters photographer Patrick Lin.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with an image claiming to show China’s fighter jets overflying Taiwan and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*a9lHfpg6PCOAmwiI