URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-the-picture-does-not-show-a-huge-fire-in-benishangul-ethiopia-c066739bffd2
FALSE: The picture does not show a huge fire in Benishangul, Ethiopia | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-09-29T07:23:54.532Z

Listen
Share
A picture posted on Facebook claiming to show a huge cloud of smoke and a crowd of onlookers milling around in Benishangul region is FALSE.
The text accompanying the picture translates loosely to, “as Benishangul region of Ethiopia — There is no peace in places where Neftegna resides”. The word Neftegna is derived from an Amharic term ‘Nefit’, which is an equivalent of a gun. In the past, individuals who served as informal military personnel and carried guns were referred to as ‘Neftegna’ which means “musketeers,” a reference to the sort of weapons they carried.
Nowadays the term is used informally in a broader context to allude to people of Amhara ethnic background, the second-largest ethnic group in Ethiopia, or in religious or ideological contexts. A statement from the office of Ethiopia’s prime minister blames media organizations, social media activists and some regional governments for the growing use of the word to inflame ethnic tensions and undermine the government efforts to entrench federalism.
Minority Rights Group International, a lobby group that works with minorities and indegenous peoples worldwide, reports that Amhara populations are increasingly being targeted in regions where they live as a minority, and that these attacks show characteristics of ethnic cleansing.
The claim made in the post comes a few days after reports that violence claimed the lives of ethnic and religious minorities in Oromia and Benishangul regional states.
However, the image showing the fire accident is not from the Benishangul region or anywhere in Ethiopia.
A reverse image search shows that the photo was used in February 2017, alongside text suggesting it was from a demonstration in Conakry, Guinea. However, the original source of the picture and the event associated with it is unclear.
PesaCheck has looked into a photo claiming to show huge plumes of smoke and people appearing to flee from the fire in Benishangul region of Ethiopia and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*6EJlfh0KEUdnq9b9