URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-of-youth-looting-beer-from-an-accident-scene-was-taken-in-roysambu-not-difatha-b897cff78e13
FALSE: This image of youth looting beer from an accident scene was taken in Roysambu, not Difatha | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-12-08T13:44:23.238Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image claiming to show youth looting beer from an overturned truck in Difatha along the Nairobi-Embu highway is FALSE.
The image shows a young man running from the site with a crate of beer bottles in hand. Several other people are seen in the background; some are looking on while others rummage through a pile of crates and broken bottles strewn across what appears to be a wet road.
The post accompanying the image explains that the accident, around Difathas (sic) along the Nairobi-Embu highway, occurred when a speeding truck overturned. Youth from the area took advantage of the accident to loot the beer, whose brand name is Santa. The post may have been referring to Difatha, a settlement in Kirinyaga county, which is some 120 kilometers from Nairobi.
The post further alleges that the youth fell unconscious after consuming vast amounts of the free beer and that police later arrived at the scene.
However, a Google reverse image search shows that the incident did not take place in Difatha as claimed in the post.
Among the search results is an article published in October 2019, by the Nairobi News, which runs alongside the same image. The article reports that the incident took place in Roysambu, a constituency within Nairobi county. Roysambu is about 100 kilometres away from Difatha.
Roysambu residents reportedly flooded the site and made away with beer, before police intervened, lobbing teargas to disperse the looters.
Apart from the image in the post, the article also carries other photos from the accident scene and, although no captions are provided, a video showing the scramble for the beer has also been published alongside the pictures.
PesaCheck has looked into the Facebook post with an image claiming to show youth looting beer from an overturned truck in Difatha along the Nairobi-Embu highway, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*wQVy3Z3VDu4Wf8IN