URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-picture-does-not-show-houses-torched-by-oromia-security-forces-and-oromia-liberation-b24f7294d1fe
FALSE: This picture does not show houses torched by Oromia security forces and Oromia Liberation Army in Benishangul in December 2022 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-01-16T13:31:54.284Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post purporting to show houses torched by the Oromia security forces and Oromia Liberation Army (OLA) in Benishangul Gumuz in December 2022 is FALSE.
The picture is accompanied by a text in Amharic that translates to; “In Benishangul Gumuz region of Kamashi zone, Mizga woreda, at village 42/Tenkara, on 10 December 2022 starting from 10:00 a.m. the Oromia security forces and Oromia Liberation Army committed invasion by beginning their journey from Arjo Gudetu are attacking civilian Amharas en mass, torching their houses, and plundering.”
However, Yandex’s reverse image search results established that the image under investigation is old and unrelated to the claimed incident.
The picture was shared on this website on 23 April 2021 to advance an article with the title, “Ethiopia: Armed Group Controls Sedal Woreda.”
The report states that the armed group that attacked civilians has been identified as the Gumuz People Democratic Movement (GPDM). It also mentioned that GPDM neither admitted nor denied the claim.
Additionally, the fact that civilians were attacked by armed groups in the Kamashi Zone of Benishangul Gumuz was reported by the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission (EHRC) on 21 April 2021.
As seen here and here, there were conflicts in the region that affected civilians, but the security situation has eased and the Ethiopian authorities’ plans for recovery and rehabilitation are underway.
PesaCheck has examined a Facebook post purporting to show houses torched by the Oromia security forces and Oromia Liberation Army in the Benishangul Gumuz region in December 2022 and found it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*MoT4HIv7T293q9Og