URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-isnt-an-image-of-tplf-troops-surrendering-to-afar-popular-forces-abbfb14f6c0
FALSE: This isn’t an image of TPLF troops surrendering to Afar Popular Forces | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-09-28T07:49:32.916Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with an image claiming to show Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) troops surrendering to Afar Popular Forces is FALSE.
“Disarming has begun,” reads the headline of the post in Amharic, shared on 19 September 2022.
“The terrorist group is in desparate sitution following the encirclement of Mekelle,” part of the post reads, adding: “Due to this, large number of militants of the terrorist group have been surrendering to Afar popular forces to save their life.”
The post is accompanied by an image of uniformed personnel queueing and an Eritrean flag in the background.
The post was also shared here and here.
In May 2021, the Ethiopian Parliament designated the TPLF as a terrorist group.
Fighting between allied forces of the Ethiopian Federal Government and Tigray Forces has been reported in northern Ethiopia’s Amhara, Afar, and Tigray regions.
On 1 September 2022, Al Jazeera reported that Eritrea had launched a new offensive against Tigray fighters in the Ethio-Eritrean border areas.
This claim image, however, doesn’t show Tigray forces surrendering to Afar troops in September 2022 as claimed.
Reverse image search results established that the image is of Eritrean soldiers on the border with Ethiopia in 2018.
The claim image shows Eritrean soldiers in a line to attend the reopening of the common border at Serha, Eritrea, following a peace deal reached in September 2018, thus ending 20 years of diplomatic impasse.
The photo was captured on 11 September 2018 by Stringer/AFP via Getty Images.
PesaCheck has investigated a Facebook post with an image claiming to show Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) militants surrendering to Afar Popular Forces and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*Y5qTVbgLNv8xrfiU