URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-is-not-an-image-of-a-military-drone-shot-down-by-the-ethiopian-air-force-as-it-entered-fb68019e3dcb
FALSE: This is not an image of a military drone shot down by the Ethiopian Air Force as it entered the country via Sudan | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-10-16T12:04:34.349Z

Listen
Share
A post on Facebook claiming to show an image of a military intelligence drone downed by the Ethiopian Air Force as it attempted to enter the country via the Ethio-Sudan border in October 2022 is FALSE.
The post, in Amharic and shared on 8 October 2022, is labelled; “Breaking news” and an image of a shot down drone.
“Unmanned drone that has attempted to enter Ethiopian air space via Ethio-Sudanese border for military intelligence purposes has been shot down by the modern anti aircraft of our heroic air force. It caught fire and crashed on the ground,” the post reads.
The post was also shared here and here.
In late August 2022, Fana Broadcasting Corporate (FBC) reported that an aeroplane transporting arms to the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) forces that had entered Ethiopian airspace via Sudan was shot down by Ethiopian Air Force.
However, the image we are investigating isn’t of the unmanned drone that Ethiopian forces shot down on the Ethio-Sudan border on 8 October 2022.
Google reverse image search results established that the image is of an armed drone shot down in Libya in 2019.
The image was first used by Army Recognition.com, an online source in the story: “Turkey uses laser weapon technology to shoot down Chinese UAV Wing Loong II in Libya” on 12 August 2019. The image was captioned “Chinese Wing Loong II UAV shot down in Libya” and the source attributed the image to Chinese TV.
According to the story, the image shows a Chinese armed drone destroyed by Turkey laser weapon technology.
The image was also featured in a similar story by the Libya Observer.
PesaCheck has investigated a post shared on Facebook claiming to show a military intelligence drone shot down by Ethiopian Air Force on Ethio-Sudan border in August 2022 and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*NFaNphBBLvrW59s4