URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-a-bus-that-exploded-in-uganda-25d0dfdf8d09
FALSE: This image does not show a bus that exploded in Uganda | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-11-17T12:17:34.947Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post appearing to show a bus bomb explosion in Uganda is FALSE.
The post claims “Breaking: Another Bomb Explosion Smashes Mbarara’s Swift Bus, One Dies On Spot, Several Injured” . A photo of a bus in flames is attached.
But this photo is not real, and there are clues including the word school bus. The post claims it is a Swift Bus, but the photo shows a school bus.
A Google reverse search of the image reveals that it was taken in Wyoming, USA, in 2019, when a school bus ferrying students caught fire due to an electrical fire in the engine compartment. No lives were lost or injured.
Also, the image of the Swift bus that caught fire is not the one in the post as seen here.
Uganda experienced a spate of bomb explosions in October 2021, that claimed at least four lives and left scores injured.
One person was reported dead and several others injured in an explosion that occurred at a pork eatery in Komamboga, a Kampala suburb, on 24 October 2021. The terror group Islamic State has claimed responsibility for the attack.
Two days later, another person died, and others were wounded in a suicide bomb attack on a bus at Lugala, Mpigi District, in central Uganda.
Police revealed that in both explosions crude improvised explosive devices assembled using local materials, including nails and other metallic fragments were used. This, police said, suggests an act of domestic terror.
On 29 October 2021, another bomb explosion attributed to an abandoned ordinance was reported in Nakaseke District, central Uganda, killing two children.
Although there were such bomb explosions in Uganda, this post claiming to show a bus explosion is untrue.
PesaCheck has looked into a post claiming to show a bus bomb explosion in Uganda and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*yvj7q-WN1gZ3Rg_0