URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-child-in-this-photo-is-not-an-amhara-ethnic-massacre-survivor-a0dc47d475a3
FALSE: Child in this photo is not an Amhara ethnic massacre survivor | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-07-27T18:49:01.654Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with a photo claiming to show a child from Amhara ethnicity of Ethiopia, who survived a massacre, is FALSE.
The post in Amharic, was shared on 14 July 2022 and reads in part: “Yesterday, the world saved these people by ‘we are the world’ initiative; today Abiy Ahmed is massacring them.”
“The child in the picture is not from Rwanda Tusti Immaculee…but she is the one who survived to tell us what had happened…she is Amharan Immaculee from Ethiopia,’’ the post says.
The post adds: “The world saved these people from the famine deaths through ‘we are the world’ initiative in 1984; but Abiy Ahmed and his group are massacuring and killing them.”
The post is accompanied by an image of a child sitting beside bodies.
Over 200 civilians, most of them reportedly from the Amhara ethnic group, were killed in the West Oromia region of Ethiopia in June 2022.
The post we are investigating refers to these killings.
In 1984 [1977 according to the Ethiopian calendar], Ethiopia experienced a devastating famine that claimed one million lives.
As part of a global humanitarian support initiative, singers, including Sir Bob Geldof and Micheal Jakson, organised a concert known as “We are the World” in 1985 to mobilise support for affected people in Northern Ethiopia. The concert raised USD 64 million.
The post refers to this charity initiative.
However, the photo doesn’t show a child from Amhara ethnicity who survived the massacre as claimed.
Google reverse image search results provide that the image is of a Rwandan refugee girl in Goma camp in the Democratic Republic of Congo in 1984 when the country was known as Zaire.
The image is credited to a photographer Jan Grarup and originally shared in white and black on on this website.
The image’s original caption reads; “A girl sitting among bodies during the big cholera epidemic in Goma, Zaire”.
The image is also shared here and here in relations to Rwandan genocide.
A cholera epidemic broke out in 1994 in Goma Refugee camp in eastern Zaire, where nearly a million Rwandan refugees, who escaped the 1994 Rwandan Genocide, sheltered.
The author of the claim we are investigating also changed the colour of the photo from white and black to colour using digital tools.
Immaculée Ilibagiza is a survivor of the Rwandan genocide of 1994 and she narrated the story of the genocide through her book titled “Left to Tell”.
PesaCheck has investigated a photo shared on Facebook claiming to show an Amhara ethnic child who survived a massacre in Ethiopia and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*zSJMqT-gqT8HGvve