URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-raila-odinga-being-taken-to-hospital-after-leaving-kasarani-stadium-e452eaf73928
FALSE: This image does not show Raila Odinga being taken to hospital after leaving Kasarani Stadium | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-12-20T08:25:35.395Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post claiming to show the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party leader, Raila Odinga, being taken to hospital after leaving Kasarani Stadium is FALSE.
On 10 December 2021, Odinga hosted an event dubbed Azimio La Umoja Convention at Kasarani Stadium. The former prime minister used the event to formally launch his 2022 presidential bid and outlined what he would do for Kenyans if elected.
Odinga also made an appearance at Uhuru Gardens for the Jamhuri Day national celebrations on 12 December 2021. Photos and a video of Odinga speaking during the Jamhuri day celebrations, two days after the convention at Kasarani, show the ODM leader going about his activities as usual.
Additionally, there were no media reports that Odinga was hospitalised after the Azimio La Umoja Convention. An article published on Tuko.co.ke on 16 December 2021 shows that Odinga is currently on a three-day campaign break in Mombasa.
“I’m in Mombasa to rest for three days. I’ve not held any meetings today. I was advised to rest after Kasarani. After the three days I will talk to different people and groups,” Odinga told Tuko.
Does the image we are fact-checking show Odinga being airlifted to the hospital? We checked.
PesaCheck has previously debunked the image but with a different claim. Our research led us to a similar image which was published in The Standard newspaper. The news outlet reported it was Nyamira County Chief Inspector, Nicanor Odhiambo, who was being airlifted after allegedly being shot by his colleague.
Inspector Odhiambo and another colleague, Sergeant Amani Ali, were shot by AP Constable Julius Mdachi who was disgruntled over his transfer of duty from the Nyamira Governor’s residence.
AfricaCheck has also previously fact-checked the image.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post claiming to show an image of Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party leader, Raila Odinga, being taken to hospital after leaving Kasarani Stadium and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*r-H4hQ_1J7s2kwMR