URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-picture-of-june-ruto-was-taken-in-poland-not-at-the-un-headquarters-6f94eb77a469
FALSE: This picture of June Ruto was taken in Poland, not at the UN headquarters | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-02-16T15:07:19.142Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image of Deputy President William Ruto’s daughter, June, attending a summit by the United Nations (UN) in Washington, DC, is FALSE.
The post contains two images; one showing Ms Ruto in a cream coloured coat and a badge around her neck, while the other is an old photo of Dr Ruto during a youth empowerment event at his Karen home in 2020, where he handed over wheelbarrows, carts and water tanks.
The post criticises supporters of the DP for being hoodwinked by donations of wheelbarrows to jobless Kenyans while his daughter enjoys privileges and plum opportunities overseas.
It is not specified which UN summit Ms Ruto was attending when the image in question was taken.
However, an internet search reveals that the image was cropped from another picture showing Ms Ruto together with the Cabinet Secretary for Defence, Monica Juma. The image was shared on the timeline of Ambassador Juma’s Twitter page on February 13, 2019.
Ms Juma’s posts with the photos, including the one in the claim, describe her arrival in Warsaw, Poland, where Ms Ruto received her ahead of a summit on security in the Middle East, and not Washington DC as alleged.
Moreover, Kenya does not have an embassy in Poland. The Ambassador of Kenya to Italy, Ms Jackline Yonga, is accredited to Poland, and represents Kenya in both Italy and Poland. Ms Ruto’s position as Charge d’Affaires in Poland means that she represents Kenya in the absence of the ambassador.
PesaCheck has looked into an image claiming to show Deputy President William Ruto’s daughter, June, attending a summit at the United Nations (UN) in Washington, DC, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*AI4x3-fJSVFDfq9q