URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-dont-show-ethiopian-air-force-stabilising-tekeze-region-9426d0941a28
FALSE: These images don’t show Ethiopian Air Force stabilising Tekeze region | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-09-30T16:15:34.529Z

Listen
Share
These images shared on Facebook claiming to show the Ethiopian Air Force hovering around the Tekeze River to stabilise the area is FALSE.
The images show two fighter jets in unidentified locations.
“The air force is stabilising around Tekeze,” reads the Amharic text accompanying the photos.
Tekeze is one of the major rivers in Ethiopia, which forms the westernmost border of Ethiopia and Eritrea and borders Amhara and Tigray regional states.
Though the post claims to show images of Ethiopian Air Force jets hovering around Tekeze, a reverse search on TinEye indicates otherwise.
The first image has been published in multiple stories since 2020. The image is featured in a story titled “Erdogan is also playing with Putin’s nerves in Armenia”, and the photo is captioned “Turkish UAV ANKA attacks Armenian army — Flies near Russian base”. The article was published on 9 March 2020. This was before the start of the Tigray conflict in November 2020.
Similarly, a reverse image search for the second picture indicates it has been online since 2015 and has featured in different stories.
The image runs alongside a story by Military Technology, an online magazine, titled “Dutch MQ-9 REAPER Deal Imminent” on 4 March 2015. The story is about the Dutch government’s procurement deal of the US unmanned aerial vehicle called MQ-9 REAPER.
The conflict north of Ethiopia has resulted in the deaths of thousands and displaced millions of people, according to this report by BBC published in September 2021.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post claiming to show images of the Ethiopian Air Force taking actions around Tekeze and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*0dn_D7kCYZ6IECLj