URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-police-trucks-in-kisumu-a-day-after-william-ruto-was-declared-abfbf9ee96af
FALSE: This image does not show police trucks in Kisumu a day after William Ruto was declared president-elect | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-08-21T20:48:58.728Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image purportedly showing police trucks in Kisumu a day after William Ruto was declared president-elect is FALSE.
“The trucks that had been parked in Eldoret town has (sic) now been moved to Kisumu City,” the post reads.
On 15 August 2022, Wafula Chebukati, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) chairman, declared Kenya Kwanza’s William Ruto the winner of the 9 August presidential election. His closest competitor was Azimio la Umoja–One Kenya Coalition’s candidate, Raila Odinga.
Prior to the election, the National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC), had mapped out political violence hotspots in the country, in a bid to avert chaos before, during and after the elections. Kisumu and Uasin Gishu were listed as high-risk areas.
After the IEBC’s declaration, cases of unrest were reported in Kisumu, which is considered Odinga’s stronghold, as celebrations rocked Ruto’s political backyard in Uasin Gishu.
A reverse search on TinEye, however, shows that the image in question dates back to 2016 and is therefore unrelated to the 2022 general elections. It was featured in a Citizen Digital article dated 10 May 2016.
“Senator Nyong’o ‘Saves Journalists During CORD’s Anti-IEBC Protest,” the headline reads.
According to the article, the then Odinga-led Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (CORD) was protesting against the IEBC at Anniversary Towers in Nairobi, ahead of the 2017 general election.
Riot police, who used tear gas to disperse the protesters. The police parked their water cannons, seen in the claim, near the IEBC offices to prevent the protesters from getting into the premises.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with an image showing police trucks allegedly moved to Kisumu a day after William Ruto was declared president-elect and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*xBoK05RjF1LPTokx