URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-doesnt-show-rigathi-gachagua-waving-at-raila-odinga-s-convoy-6898258e8129
FALSE: This image doesn’t show Rigathi Gachagua waving at Raila Odinga’s convoy | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-05-31T10:48:22.262Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post claiming to show Mathira Member of Parliament Rigathi Gachagua waving at Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) Party leader Raila Odinga’s convoy in Nyeri is FALSE.
Gachagua is Deputy President William Ruto’s running mate in the 2022 general elections. DP Ruto is eyeing the top seat and will be facing off between the ODM Party leader, Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Safina flagbearer Jimi Wanjigi, and 51 other presidential aspirants.
However, does the image we are fact-checking show Gachagua waving at Odinga’s convoy? We checked.
After reviewing Gachagua’s Facebook page we came across a Facebook post shared by the deputy president-designate on 30 April 2022. In the post, Gachagua shared the photo we are fact-checking and captioned it “Thank you my great people of Mathira for joining me this morning in giving our leader President Mwai Kibaki such a warm welcome and dignified send-off. I love you and always will”.
Gachagua also attached other images of the residents waiting by the roadside to wave at Kibaki’s funeral cortege. In one of the images, you can see the name “Road Asset & Corridor Management Corridor — C Camp Karatina”. This means that Gachagua was at Karatina in Mathira Constituency when he was waving at Kibaki’s funeral cortege. Gachagua also shared a video of Mathira Constituency residents waving at the late Kibaki’s funeral cortege.
According to a video shared by NTV Kenya, the ODM party leader arrived at Othaya, Nyeri shortly before the late Kibaki’s cortege. As seen in this Citizen TV Kenya video, Odinga arrived in an helicopter at Othaya Boys High School. The ODM party leader and his wife Ida Odinga were then taken to the burial venue, Othaya Approved School by road.
An NTV Kenya bulletin reports the distance between Othaya Boys High School and Othaya Approved School is only about 10 minutes. However, Google Maps estimates the distance from Karatina (where Gachagua was on the morning of Kibaki’s burial) to Othaya Boys High School to be 34 km which takes approximately 43 minutes.
Therefore, Gachagua was waving at the late Mwai Kibaki’s cortege and not Odinga’s convoy.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post claiming to show Mathira Member of Parliament Rigathi Gachagua waving at Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) Party leader Raila Odinga’s convoy in Nyeri and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*JMOs6CXC119xWkoX