URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-nato-and-pentagon-fighter-jets-e4a29cc8612c
FALSE: This image does not show NATO and Pentagon fighter jets | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-04-04T06:29:22.797Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image claiming to show naval and fighter jets sent out by North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) and the Pentagon in Eastern Europe is FALSE.
NATO is an intergovernmental military alliance between 28 European and two North American countries.
The post in Amharic translates, “Russia says the war has not stopped. NATO, in conjunction with the Pentagon, has flown in large numbers of naval vessels, fighter jets, warships, and additional troops throughout Eastern Europe.”
NATO finds itself in the midst of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, after Russian President, Vladimir Putin, declared a “special military operation” in February 2022.
Many NATO members have announced sanctions against Russia for invading Ukraine.
Towards the end of March 2022, Russia’s defence ministry said the first phase of its military operation in Ukraine was “mostly complete”.
While the claim says Pentagon and NATO have sent jets to Eastern Europe, there are news reports that the United States has rejected suggestions by Poland to provide MiG-29 planes to Ukraine.
Moreover, Google’s reverse image search results show that the picture used to support the claim that NATO and Pentagon have sent fighter jets is untrue.
The Newsweek website published the picture in an article: “52 Chinese Warplanes Fly Through Taiwan Defense Zone Amid Growing Tensions.”
The picture’s caption indicates that the planes belong to the Chinese People’s Liberation Army Air Force flying in formation during a celebration parade in Beijing. The image is credited to Feng Li via Getty Images and dated 1 October 2009.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with an image claiming to show naval and fighter jets sent throughout Eastern Europe by NATO in conjunction with the Pentagon and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*2lCnr4JcERV_1i6s