URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-a-plane-carrying-weapons-downed-by-the-ethiopian-air-force-in-c72f1b97dcd7
FALSE: These images do not show a plane carrying weapons downed by the Ethiopian Air force in August 2022 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-09-05T09:56:01.288Z

Listen
Share
These posts with images claiming to show the Ethiopian Air Force shooting down a plane that violated the country’s airspace in August 2022 are FALSE.
The first post, shared on Facebook on 24 August 2022, has a text in Amharic that translates as; “Breaking news. The Ethiopian Air Force has announced that it shot down a plane that violated Ethiopian airspace carrying weapons for the TPLF.”
The second post — also in Amharic — was published on Twitter on the same day and is loosely translated as; “Breaking News! An enemy plane heading to Tigray through north Humera to deliver weapons to the terrorist group after violating Ethiopian airspace in Sudan was downed by the heroic Ethiopian Air Force.”
Fighting between Tigrayan forces and CentralGovernment forces erupted around the town of Kobo in late August 2022, after months of ceasefire.
On 24 August 2022, Major General Tesfaye Ayalew said that the Ethiopian Air Force shot down a plane carrying weapons for the rebel Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) that had “encroached on the country’s airspace via Sudan”.
However, as seen here and here, Yandex reverse image search results indicate that the images are old and unrelated to Ethiopia’s Air Force shooting down a plane carrying weapons in Tigray in August 2022.
The first image was shared by a Twitter user in May 2020, among a series of other photos, with a caption that read: “Interesting 18-shot photo series of Chinese Air Force J-10 fighters on exercises. The Chengdu J-10 employs a Chinese-developed HUD head-up display and HMS helmet-mounted sight. Serial numbers seem to have been removed from some of these images.” The image is watermarked ‘China Military’.
The second photo was taken from the video of a crashed civilian cargo aircraft at Bagram airfield near the Afghan capital, Kabul, on 2 May 2013. The video was credited to the RT news website.
PesaCheck has examined Facebook posts with images claiming to show the Ethiopian Air Force taking down a plane that violated the country’s airspace and carrying weapons for the Tigray People’s Liberation Front in August 2022 and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*6-jUDQP8UizdVIXe