URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-is-not-of-bomet-town-a879dfbee232
FALSE: This image is not of Bomet Town | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-11-22T16:55:47.712Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with an image purportedly of Bomet Town in Kenya is FALSE.
The post reads: “Aerial view of Bomet town. The biggest town in the entire Rift Valley. The only County with the best ICT centre in Kenya. The home of Musicians, just to say the least.”
It is accompanied by a photo of an urban area.
The image has also been posted here and here, also claiming to show Bomet Town.
To determine the veracity of the claims in the post, PesaCheck investigated the geographical coverage of Bomet and the ICT sector in the county.
While unable to establish the exact size of Bomet Town in relation to other towns in the other 13 Rift Valley region counties, Bomet County covers an area of about 1997.9 square kilometres with a population of about 875,689 as of 2020. In comparison, Turkana County is the largest in the Rift Valley region, with an area spanning 71,597.8 square kilometres.
Further, there is no evidence that Bomet has the best ICT centre in the country. Although the government held a groundbreaking ceremony for a software factory in Bomet County in August 2022, the facility is yet to be opened.
PesaCheck also conducted a reverse image search on the image in question. The results brought up various posts about Nairobi with images that have similarities with the one under our scrutiny, such as here and here, although taken from different angles.
Images with similar features have also been shared on stock image sites here and here and are attributed to Nairobi.
From the images, certain markers show that the image in the post we are fact-checking is of Nairobi. One is the Teleposta Towers (highlighted in blue below) along Nairobi’s Kenyatta Avenue. It has a characteristic mast. The building can also be seen from an aerial view of Nairobi.
Further, from the image under our scrutiny, one can see Kenya’s parliament building (highlighted in white below) which is situated in Nairobi.
PesaCheck has reviewed a Facebook post with an image purporting to show Bomet County in Kenya and found it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*Ey5oPoCclybIHtEe