URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-before-and-after-photo-is-from-syria-not-libya-30b9fde60531
FALSE: This before and after photo is from Syria, not Libya | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-04-23T06:48:39.184Z

Listen
Share
A photo shared on Twitter claiming to compare Libya before and after the 2011 revolution in the country is FALSE.
The post accompanying the photo reads: “This is Libya before and after Revolution. Libya was better off during Muammar Gaddafi’s hands than it is now in the hands of rebels. The country has sunk beyond repair #BringOnTheRevolution”.
Libya, an oil-rich North Africa country, has experienced conflict since 2011, when protestors took to the streets to demonstrate against Muammar Gaddafi’s rule.
With the help of foreign forces under the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (Nato), Gaddafi, who had ruled the Arab country for 42 years, was overthrown and later killed, plunging the country into chaos.
However, the images used to compare Libya before and after the revolution are from a foreign source.
A reverse image search shows that the city captured in the two images is Aleppo, the largest Syrian city before the start of the country’s civil war in 2011 and not Libya, as claimed in the post. The image has been used multiple times, including here.
Once known for its great wealth in textiles, soap, and listed as a United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) world heritage site, Aleppo fell victim to the mass demonstrations that broke out in March 2011 in Damascus, Syria’s capital city.
Residents demanded political reforms, civil rights and the release of political prisoners, and in 2012 the demonstrations evolved into a civil war, pitting rebels against the military.
The civil war continued until December 2016, when the rebels surrendered to the Syrian forces in exchange for a safe passage out of the city. Aleppo suffered the most destruction during the civil war, with damages amounting to $7.5 billion.
PesaCheck has looked into a photo shared on Twitter claiming to show Libya before and after the revolution in the country and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*Fx4k7w5VVZFpWLZy