URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-is-not-of-vehicle-queues-in-argentina-ae8c5dd19134
FALSE: This image is not of vehicle queues in Argentina | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-10-31T16:45:13.556Z

Listen
Share
This post on X (formerly Twitter) claiming to show an image of vehicle queues caused by fuel shortage in Argentina is FALSE.
“Fuel queues surface in Argentina as FX shortage leaves oil tankers stranded at sea…..,” the text accompanying the image reads.
The X post shows a Shell station with a long queue of vehicles and motorbikes waiting for fuel.
Notably, Argentina faces a fuel shortage due to domestic refining issues and a dollar scarcity, causing import delays. This has resulted in long queues, rationed fuel, and some stations displaying “no petrol” signs.
However, does the image attached to the X post we are fact-checking show the current situation in Argentina? We did some digging.
Upon initial inspection, several indicators suggest that the image was not captured in Argentina. One prominent clue is a green and yellow branded vehicle clearly labelled “UDA,” which corresponds to a political party in Kenya. These colours, yellow and green, are also emblematic of the United Democratic Alliance branding.
Another conspicuous indicator is the licence plates of the vehicles at the filling station. Those whose plates are visible start with a “K” and are presented in black font against either a white or yellow background, a pattern synonymous with civilian plates in Kenya.
The third red flag is the Safaricom shop sign beside the filling station. The telecommunications company has shops in Kenya and Ethiopia.
We also performed a reverse image search that revealed that the picture depicted a Shell Petrol Station in Kapsabet, Kenya. TUKO featured the image on 29 March 2022, during a fuel crisis affecting parts of North Rift and Western Kenya.
The original sharing of the image was attributed to the Petroleum Outlets Association of Kenya (POAK). A similar image, taken in Kapsabet Town, was also posted by Kenyans.co.ke on 28 March 2022.
PesaCheck has looked into an X post claiming to show an image of vehicle queues caused by fuel shortage in Argentina and found it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*ZOloxMDNMD64ms0U