URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-a-military-exercise-by-china-in-2022-a227acbe172
FALSE: This image does not show a military exercise by China in 2022 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-08-12T16:05:53.122Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with an image claiming to show a Chinese military exercise in 2022 is FALSE.
Part of the post in Amharic is translated as; “China is carrying out what is said to be the most difficult military exercise ever, and it announced that it launched a missile at Taiwan.”
The post adds: “After US Congress Speaker Nancy Pelosi returned from a visit to Taiwan, China is launching missiles at Taiwan in an unprecedented manner according to a Reuters report. Taiwan’s Ministry of Defense has announced that China has launched 11 Dongfeng ballistic missiles into the island’s waters”.
The post further says: “The last time China launched a missile into Taiwan’s waters was in 1996. Taiwanese officials have condemned the incident as a violation of United Nations principles and restricting free air and sea travel. In a statement given by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of China, it is recalled he said that those who play with fire will not end well, and those who oppose China will be punished soon”.
Another netizen made a similar claim.
But results from a Google reverse image search showed that the claimed image is unrelated to the current dispute between China and Taiwan.
The image was shared on this website on 28 July 2014, with a caption that reads; “A file photo of the indigenously developed Akash. Once a plane is identified as hostile, information about its initial location is relayed to the missile through a signal, so the missile is shot in the direction identified by the radar.” Image credit is given to AFP.
As seen here and here, the same image was published on other websites.
On 4 August 2022, the BBC reported that China launched 11 ballistic missiles near Taiwan after United States House Speaker Nancy Pelosi visited Taiwanese capital Taipei.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with an image claiming to show a military exercise conducted by China in 2022 and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*3Vb7AEjA60vQyZDc