URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-is-not-of-kenyas-nairobi-river-7472a7304ec2
FALSE: This image is not of Kenya’s Nairobi River | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-11-20T18:17:15.006Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with an image purportedly of Kenya’s Nairobi River is FALSE.
The post reads in part, “I am not aware of what the Nairobi Rivers Commission has been doing to restore the once glorious Nairobi River but I wish they could use the ongoing rain and divert floods to the river. Floods will aid in clearing up the pollutants for collection downstream….And restore parts of its biodiversity.”
The post adds, “This is not only cost-effective but also less laborious. From there, they can then think of erecting barriers along the river as it snakes through the city and its outskirts.”
Alongside the post is an image of what appears to be a polluted river.
The Nairobi River, which flows through Kenya’s capital, suffers pollution. Various initiatives have been started over the years to help restore the river. In February 2023, President William Ruto launched the Nairobi Rivers Commission as the newest plan for restoring the Nairobi rivers basin.
The image in question, however, is not of the Nairobi River.
A Google reverse image search established that the image is of the Citarum River in Indonesia.
The image was featured alongside other pictures of the river in an article by The Guardian dated 5 December 2008, with the headline, “Pollution in the Citarum river, Indonesia.”
The image attributed to Agence France-Presse’s Adek Berry is available on Getty Images and was created on 5 December 2008.
The caption reads, “TO GO WITH STORY INDONESIA-ENVIRONMENT-WATER By Stephen Coates. Two men walk next to polluted river in North Jakarta on December 5, 2008. One of the world’s most polluted rivers, the Citarum in Indonesia, is about to receive a massive cleanup that will improve the lives of millions of people, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) said, adding it had agreed to provide a 500 million-dollar multi-tranche loan package to support Indonesian government efforts to rehabilitate the strategic but horribly polluted river on Java island.”
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with an image purportedly of Kenya’s Nairobi River and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*7KAfxqX7WU49FLj6