URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-kilifi-gubernatorial-candidate-aisha-jumwa-pleading-to-speak-at-a-fa42dfa8a8c0
FALSE: This image does not show Kilifi gubernatorial candidate Aisha Jumwa pleading to speak at a UDA rally in Malindi | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-07-18T10:57:23.068Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image claiming to show Kilifi gubernatorial candidate Aisha Jumwa “begging for a chance to speak” at a UDA rally in Malindi is FALSE.
“Dear William Ruto , this is a woman , a leader , a gubernatorial candidate by the name Aisha Jumwa vying under UDA , you’re frustrating her because of Amason Kingi who joined your camp weeks ago , why is she begging to speak at your rallies ? Is this how your reward your foot soldiers [sic]?” the post reads in part.
A similar claim was also shared in a public Facebook group with over 168,000 members.
Jumwa is among five candidates cleared by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to contest for the Kilifi gubernatorial position. The Malindi Member of Parliament (MP) is running on a United Democratic Alliance (UDA) ticket, under the Kenya Kwanza coalition.
The legislator was, however, not pleading to speak at the coalition’s rally in Malindi. A search for the key words “Ruto Malindi rally” reveals a live stream of the 25 May 2022 rally held by local broadcaster TV47.
From minute 13:10–13:30, Jumwa is seen in the crowd waving thrice after the Kenya Kwanza presidential candidate, William Ruto, acknowledges her presence and asks the crowd to support her gubernatorial bid. She is not begging to speak as claimed.
“This woman Aisha Jumwa, is she not vying for the Kilifi gubernatorial seat? Is she capable or not? Will you give her your votes to be the governor of this area?” Ruto asks the crowd in Swahili, pointing at Jumwa.
Jumwa is later given an opportunity to address the crowd like the other UDA aspirants present at the rally, as can be seen from minute 31:18.
PesaCheck looked at a Facebook post with an image claiming Kilifi gubernatorial candidate, Aisha Jumwa, was begging for a chance to speak at a UDA rally in Malindi and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*0DaRpnL5zDepNXmi