URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-voters-in-akaki-kality-and-gelan-areas-of-addis-ababa-city-7cf65d1a34c5
FALSE: This image does not show voters in Akaki Kality and Gelan areas of Addis Ababa city | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-06-25T16:05:41.479Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook image claiming to show people lining up to vote at Akaki Kality sub-city of the Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa is FALSE.
The image was posted by Taye Dendea, a top government official, and is accompanied by text in Amharic and Afan Oromo that reads, “Akaki Kality. There is a high turn out and people are voting. The attempt and efforts that were made to disrupt the election have failed”.
The first photo in the Facebook post in question was shared by a different user with the claim that it was taken in the Gelan area of Addis Ababa.
The same image was also posted by Daniel Kibret, who was an independent candidate in Lemi Kura sub-city area, with a claim that it shows voters at Lemi Kura in Addis Ababa.
The timestamp on the three Facebook posts shows the image was first posted online by Daniel, who cast his vote at the Lemi Kura area polling station.
Responding to PesaCheck’s query, Daniel, who is also an advisor to Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, on social affairs, dismissed the claims that the photo shows voters in Gelan and Akaki Kality areas.
Daniel further noted that the photo was captured by one of the election observers at Lemi-Kura area.
“The photo was taken and originally shared by our teams, who were election observers at Lemi-Kura sub-city,” Daniel said.
PesaCheck’s research found that the image was also shared by Adebabay Media, with the caption accompanying the image stating that it shows voters in the Lemi Kura area.
A reverse image search for the second and third photos yielded no results.
Ethiopia’s sixth general election was held on 21 June, 2021. However, due to pre-election fraud, the war in Tigray, violence in some parts of the country, and logistical problems, some of the parliamentary constituencies did not participate in the Monday polls. Some prominent opposition parties also boycotted the election.
Despite the challenges, long queues of voters were witnessed at polling centres.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook photo claiming to show voters at Akaki Kality and Gelan areas and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*jHegBEPuFNWxNdfg