URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-the-ethiopian-air-force-attacking-a-g-3-shopping-mall-in-bati-efb1be0f296e
FALSE: This image does not show the Ethiopian Air Force attacking a G+3 shopping mall in Bati | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-11-25T08:28:39.030Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook image claiming to show the Ethiopian Air Force attacking a G+3 shopping mall in Bati is FALSE.
“The juntas, who were dancing at a place called Awsaber in Bati town, are destroyed. The Tigray invading forces are completely destroyed while they were dancing in ​​Bati town in the place known as Awsaber in a G+3 shopping mall,” the post in the Amharic language reads.
To support the claim, the post has used the image of an aircraft. However, TinEye and Google reverse image search results, as seen here and here respectively, reveal that the image is not related to Ethiopia.
TinEye reverse image search results show that the photo was published on different platforms since 2013. For instance, the image was published on the Soha website on 26 March 2013.
Also, Google reverse image search results reveal that the image was used on different online platforms. The South Asian Voices website used the image on 1 June 2018 to support an article with the title “Is U.S. Strategy against the Islamic State in Afghanistan Working?”. Similarly, the same image was published on the Voice of America (VOA) website on 23 April 2018 to advance an article that discussed the intensification of the war in Afghanistan.
The description of the image on the VOA website reveals that the image is of a US Air Force F-15E Strike Eagle aircraft and was taken on 26 November 2009 in eastern Afghanistan. And the caption of the image on the South Asian Voices website indicates it was taken by Tech. Sgt. Michael B. Keller.
Although there has been a war in the northern parts of Ethiopia since November 2020, the image under investigation is not related to the conflict in Ethiopia.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook image claiming to show the Ethiopian Air Force attacking a G+3 shopping mall in Bati and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*jdtOrw97vxVToCh5