URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-anti-lockdown-protests-in-london-29726f0be99c
FALSE: This image does not show anti-lockdown protests in London | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-05-07T13:51:31.999Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Twitter claiming to show anti-lockdown protests in London is FALSE.
The photo shows a huge crowd standing on a tree-lined road. Some of the people in the image are holding British flags and others umbrellas. The caption insinuates that the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) censored such content in its coverage.
“The photo you won’t see on the BBC news,” reads part of the caption.
The text includes different hashtags relating to lockdown protests in London.
In April 2021, thousands of Britons took to the streets to protest COVID-19 lockdown restrictions in the country. Reuters and the BBC reported that the protestors termed the restrictions “unnecessary and a breach of human rights.”
Although protests happened in Britain, a Google reverse image search reveals that the photo does not show protestors as claimed. Among the search results is an article by the Daily Mail dated June 5, 2012.
The article is about the Diamond Jubilee celebrations to mark the 60th anniversary of the accession to the throne of Queen Elizabeth II on February 6, 1952. The caption reads, “Patriotic visitors at the Mall cheer and whoop as the royals emerge”.
The Mall is a landmark road in the City of Westminster, central London, that runs between Buckingham Palace at its western end and Trafalgar Square. The photo is credited to Getty Images.
Another article by CNN contains the same image, with a similar description of the image — a crowd out to cheer the royals during the Diamond Jubilee carriage procession after the thanksgiving service at St Paul’s Cathedral.
PesaCheck has looked into the image shared on Twitter claiming to show anti-lockdown protests in London, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*nFp4u8D0owLfP0aK