URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-roadblocks-in-kobo-town-in-amhara-664987bb560
FALSE: These images do not show roadblocks in Kobo town in Amhara | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-01-30T10:51:11.246Z

Listen
Share
Images shared on Facebook claiming to show roadblocks in Kobo town in North Wollo zone, Amhara regional state, are FALSE.
The post claims the roadblocks are to stop the retreating of Ethiopian Defense Forces. “This has occurred around Kobo,” the post in Amharic reads in reference to the attached images.
“The road has been blocked to stop the defense forces from retreating,” it adds.
The post was shared on Facebook on 17 January 2022.
Three images showing stones and wood piles across the middle of different road scenes are included in the post.
However, PesaCheck has established that two of the three photos are from past events.
Google reverse image search results for the first image show it was taken during the Oromo protests in November 2015. The photo shows the road blocked by protesters in Wolenkomi town, about 55 km away from the capital Addis Ababa.
On the other hand, the reverse image search for the second image on Yandex show that the image was taken in Ambo during the #OromoProtests. The image shows a road blocked in Ambo in 2017 as part of Oromo youth protests and was credited to BBC Amharic.
Image search results for the third image show that it was taken in Amhara in 2019. The photo shows a road blockade in Hamusit town in south Gondar zone of Amhara that took place in March 2019 during a demonstration.
The Ethiopian army has been in battle with Tigray forces since November 2020 when war broke out in the regional state in the north of the country. In December 2021, Ethiopian government forces recaptured major towns in Amhara regional state, including Kobo, Weldiya and Dessie which were under the control of Tigray forces.
In January 2022, the Ethiopian government released top opposition leaders as a gesture of reconciliation. However, reports show drone attacks in the Tigray region despite the promises made to seek lasting peace in the country.
PesaCheck has investigated images shared on Facebook claiming to show road blockage in Kobo town in Amhara regional state aimed at stopping the retreat of Ethiopian Defense Forces, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*g3N3zfMNedjm4kw5