URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-isnt-the-image-of-ethiopian-air-force-jet-bombarding-multiple-places-held-by-tigray-90d1d253112d
FALSE: This isn’t the image of Ethiopian Air Force jet bombarding multiple places held by Tigray forces | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-09-20T09:47:09.532Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with an image claiming to show an Ethiopian Air Force jet bombarding multiple places held by Tigray forces north of the country is FALSE.
The 13 September 2022 post, in Afaan Oromo, reads in part: “The heroic Ethiopian Air Force has bombarded seven different important places of the Junta.”
According to the post, the bombarded places were “Dimits Woyane (DW) Television located in Mekelle city; Tekuleshe Seway Mariam where leaders and militants of the Junta were in a meeting; Dedebit and Abala in Afar region as leaders of the Junta were in a meeting”.
Other Facebook users shared the post here and here on the same date. A picture of an aircraft is accompanying the post.
Tekuleshe is in north Wollo in Amhara regional state, while Dedebit is a lowland place in northwestern Tigray region.
Al Jazeera reported that 10 people were killed in a drone attack in Tigray’s capital — Mekelle — on 13 September 2022.
Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) spokesperson Getachew Reda tweeted, as seen here and here, that the alleged attacks were carried out by the Ethiopian government forces in Mekelle but he didn’t mention any drone attack outside the region’s capital.
Dimitsi Woyane, a TPLF- affiliated broadcast media, also shared images on social media on 13 September 2022 claiming to show the broadcast’s damaged studio during the drone attack.
However, the claim image is not related to the Ethiopian Air Force bombarding the Tigray region.
Google reverse image search results established that the image is of an Algerian fighter jet in 2014.
The image was first shared by Top War, an online resource about the military on 8 September 2022. The photo is captioned “Su-30MKI (A) fighters of the Algerian Air Force”.
PesaCheck has investigated an image shared on Facebook claiming to show Ethiopian Air Force bombarding multiple places in Tigray region and finds it to be FALSE

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*VDbW2vps0Gr7T7Sp