URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-is-not-of-an-aerial-view-of-kenyas-masinde-muliro-university-of-science-and-c3cfe8034fbf
FALSE: This image is not of an aerial view of Kenya’s Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-01-30T08:07:32.748Z

Listen
Share
A tweet with an image purportedly of an aerial view of Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology (MMUST) is FALSE.
The post reads: “An aerial view of Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology. The only University located at the center of the biggest forest in Kenya.”
A Google reverse search shows the image is of the University of Ghana. A Facebook post by a page with the username ‘Travel And Africa’ shared similar images on 22 September 2021.
“An Aerial view of University Of Ghana,” reads the post in part.
The post adds: “Founded in 1948, in the British Colony of the Gold Coast, as the University of Gold Coast and was originally an affiliate College of the University Of London, which supervised its academic programs and awarded degrees.”
The post attributes the images to @albertchime; a name that is also watermarked on the photo in the claim.
A Google search for the handle @albertchime, reveals that he is a photographer based in Accra, Ghana.
Chime shared the image in question alongside others, on his Instagram account on 3 September 2021, explaining how he got robbed of his drone and was gifted a new one, which he used to photograph the institution.
“So for my first professional flight I went to my Alma Mater; the University of Ghana. This is the place where I grew my passion and I’m hoping this opens doors for many great vibes!” the post reads in part.
Chime’s photographs match the structure of the University of Ghana as seen on Google Maps.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with an image purportedly of an aerial view of Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology (MMUST) and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*N2dy4jVUM0P5KG-S