URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-a-tplf-weapons-depot-destroyed-by-the-ethiopian-air-force-in-shire-fe13bd3303c6
FALSE: These images do not show a TPLF weapons depot destroyed by the Ethiopian Air Force in Shire | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-10-27T04:44:22.507Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with images claiming to show the destroyed Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) military depot in Shire city by the Ethiopian Air Force is FALSE.
The post, in Afaan Oromo, was shared on 28 September 2022, with four images purporting to show the destruction.
“News of Victory: a large cache of weapons of the terrorist group TPLF, which was located in the city of Shire-Inda Selassie, was destroyed yesterday evening with the action taken by our heroic air force. In related information, it has been learned that a high-ranking leader of the Junta’s TPLF army, whose identity has not been identified yet, died in the action taken,” the post reads.
Shire, also known as Inda Selassie, is a city and separate district in the Tigray region, Ethiopia.
On 24 August 2022, fighting resumed between TPLF and federal government forces around the town of Kobo after a five-month lull.
PesaCheck reviewed the post and found it to be untrue.
The claimed images do not show the Tigray forces military depot destroyed in September 2022, as seen here, here, here, and here.
The first image was published on the Ostannipodii.com website on 4 April 2022, in the article headlined; “Destroyed Russian equipment in the south of Kharkiv region (46 photos).”
The Bikha website published the second image on 5 April 2022, in the article, “Whoever comes with a sword will die by the sword. Losses of Russia in Ukraine on April 5 and the main areas of fighting.”
The third image was published on the Defense Express website on 4 May 2022, in an article titled, “Ukraine’s General Staff Operational Report: Russia is Still Trying to Maintain the Land Corridor With the Temporarily Occupied Ukrainian Crimea.”
The last image was published on the Censor.net website on 4 April 2022, alongside an article with the heading, “Ukrainian army destroyed column of troops of Russian Federation around Ichnia in Chernihiv region, — operational command “North”. PHOTOS.”
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with images claiming to show a Tigray People’s Liberation Front military depot in Shire destroyed by the Ethiopian Air Force and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*0j2HAE2IJGlFmeLD