URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-the-dispute-between-china-and-taiwan-in-2022-5eec04234b75
FALSE: These images do not show the dispute between China and Taiwan in 2022 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-08-26T06:26:19.158Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with images claiming to show the conflict between China and Taiwan in 2022 is FALSE.
Part of the Amharic post translates as; “The preparation for war continues. China is closing Taiwan’s ports. And now it is impossible to leave or enter Taiwan from now on. Taiwan is bound by China in that zone through which most of the world’s trade passes. After the Chinese military encircled Taiwan, it issued an order to prevent international flights from entering Taiwan. China has issued this warning so that the planes that transport people will not be downed by missile attacks as the war may start. Now Taiwan is isolated from the world. It has become an island from which it is impossible to leave or enter as China cut off the air and seaways.”
The post adds: “Taiwan’s leader Tsai Ing-win appealed to the people of Taiwan to remain calm and stand on the side of the Taiwanese military. The Taiwanese are horrified. Nancy Pelosi, the reason behind all this, said that America will not hand over Taiwan to China and will not leave it alone. She assured They will stand on the side of Taiwan. Although Pelosi said this, President Joe Biden stated a few days ago that the United States does not want to enter into a military conflict with China.”
The post further states: “Taiwan’s President Tsai Ing-wen called on democracy-loving countries to support Taiwan and save it from China. She pleaded with the countries to stand on the side of Taiwan by claiming that Taiwan is in danger of being swallowed up. The Chinese military continues to march into Taiwan. We are about to see another Ukraine in Far East Asia. I have compiled the information from Aljazeera, Reuters, Global Times, RT world and Bloomberg.”
Three images are attached to the post. However, as seen here, here, and here, Google reverse image search results indicate that the images are old and not related with the China-Taiwan tensions in 2022.
The first image was shared on this website on 22 July 2020 with a caption that reads: “Royal Australian Navy warships have joined US and Japanese vessels in military exercises.”
The same image was posted on other websites.
As seen here and here, the second picture has been online since 2013, with image credit given to AFP. The description of the image on this website from Google translates as; “China nuclear missile parade.”
The third photo was published on this website on 27 August 2020 with this caption: “Chinese naval warships fire missiles during a live-fire military drill in the waters of Bohai Sea and Yellow Sea, off China’s east coast, August 7, 2017.”
The same photo was also shared here and here and image credit is given to Reuters.
Although China conducted military drills close to the Taiwan border after US House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s visit to Taiwan, the claimed images do not show this incident.
PesaCheck has examined the Facebook post with images claiming to show the conflict between China and Taiwan in 2022 and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*jhqKVqYhjPVdwDyL