URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-russian-forces-entering-the-capital-city-of-ukraine-31fd3fe3bf03
FALSE: These images do not show Russian forces entering the capital city of Ukraine | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-02-28T10:15:37.413Z

Listen
Share
A post with images shared on Facebook claiming to show Russian Forces entering the capital city of Ukraine is FALSE.
The post, in Afaan Oromoo, reads, “Current News: the Russian military has entered the capital city of Ukraine. The Ukraine government cabinet has announced through Twitter, as the capital city of Ukraine, Kyiv, captured by the Russian Force.”
Russian troops invaded Ukraine in late February 2022, with fighting spreading to Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv, as Russian forces advanced on the city. Reports show Ukraine forces are putting up resistance to invading Russia’s troops, which have surrounded and shelled the capital.
However, as reverse image search results show here, here, and here, the pictures have no relation to happening in the Ukraine conflict with Russia.
Yandex reverse image search results reveal that the first photo has been shared by multiple Facebook, Pinterest, Twitter, and Reddit users.
The image shows Comfort Town residential district in Kyiv, Ukraine, although it is not indicated by whom it was taken. A search on TinEye also shows the earliest instance the photo was found online in September 2020.
The second image was published on the Diplomat news website on 14 April 2015. The photo features an article describing Russian S-400 Missile Defense Systems to be supplied to China. The image is credited to the Kremlin and dated 9 May 2010.
The third image was shared on Le Parisien news website on 15 March 2018 in an article titled, “Vladimir Putin likes to go shirtless? ‘For the Russians, it’s Superman.’” The image is credited to Alexey Druzhinin/Ria Novosti of the AFP.
PesaCheck has looked into images shared in a Facebook post claiming to show Russian Forces entering the capital city of Ukraine and finds them to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*Fkk6eGyQxBYR1aJ0