URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-arent-images-of-weapons-captured-in-seqota-front-in-september-2022-4763fc20f92c
FALSE: These aren’t images of weapons captured in Seqota front in September 2022 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-09-16T10:21:33.398Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with images shared on Facebook claiming to show weapons captured in the Seqota front, Amhara regional state in Ethiopia, is FALSE.
The images were shared on 6 September 2022 with an Amharic text that translates as; “These weapons are captured in the Seqota front”.
The post attaches five different pictures of various weapons and directs users to a Telegram channel for details.
War resumed between Ethiopian Federal Government forces and Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) fighters in northern Ethiopia, breaking a March 2022 ceasefire.
Seqota, also spelt as Sekota, is a district in Wag Hemra zone in the Amhara regional state of Ethiopia.
However, the images we are investigating do not show weapons captured in the ongoing war in north Ethiopia.
Google reverse image search results for the first image show that the photo was related to an incident in South Africa, not Ethiopia. DefenseWeb shared the picture in November 2021. It shows weapons and military material belonging to a terrorist group called Al Sunnah wa Jama’ah (ASWJ) seized by the Southern African Development Community’s Mission in Mozambique (SAMIM).
The image was also shared on Reddit with a similar description in November 2021.
The second image is attributed to weapons captured by Oromo Liberation Army (OLA) in Guji, south Oromia, in 2020, Google reverse image search results show. The image was shared on Twitter, in May 2020, with a description that the OLA captured the weapons from government special forces during fighting that year.
The third image is related to the war in Weldiya, in the north Wollo zone of Amhara regional state in August 2021, according to the reverse search results. The image was used by Walta, Ethiopian government-affiliated broadcast media, in August 2021. It described the image as “Weapons seized by Ethiopian defence forces from Tigray fighters in a war conducted around Weldiya, Tikur Wuha”.
Likewise, search results for the fourth image show weapons seized by Islamic State (ISIS), an armed group operating in Mozambique. The image was featured in a story by Terrorism-info.org, an online resource on global terrorism, on March 2022.
The fifth image is related to the war in the Tigray region in September 2021, results of the reverse image search indicate. The photo was taken by Walta TV in September 2021 with the description that “the weapons were captured from TPLF fighters headed by Colonel Kiros Gebrekidan in May Tsebri front, in Tigray region” in September 2021.
PesaCheck has investigated a Facebook post with images claiming to show weapons captured in the Seqota front in the ongoing war in North Ethiopia and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*aNiqIR9hn6PjCTV-