URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-are-not-of-chaka-project-in-addis-ababa-a0e54de868b2
FALSE: These images are not of Chaka project in Addis Ababa | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-12-12T07:14:57.638Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with images claiming to be of an ETB49 billion Chaka Project under construction in Addis Ababa is FALSE.
Chaka is part of the Ethiopian government’s 10-year plan to improve Addis Ababa’s infrastructure.
Part of the post in the Amharic translates to; “Chaka project. The Chaka project is a huge project that covers the mountainous forest behind the British Embassy, ​​covers Entton, passes through the foothills of Sululta, reaches Tafo, and back here. The total area of ​​the project is 3,700 hectares. This Chaka satellite city includes palaces, residences, commercial centers, dams, large man-made lakes, cable transport, entertainment, and service facilities that make a city look like a city. A year ago, the Prime Minister’s Office issued a call for participation in construction and 11 construction companies applied. Some of them took nearly ten hectares of land each and started some activities to build residential apartments according to the designs given to them.”
The post added: “The construction of the palace is accelerating too. It is believed by experts that New Addis Ababa is beautiful and can generate a lot of money every day. According to experts, Chaka city provides an opportunity to avoid repeating the mistakes made when other cities were built. It will be a beautiful place where man and nature meet. Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed called the project “a Pride of Africa” in his explanation to Parliament. It is also good news for industry players as the project will involve multiple contractors, create more jobs, and promote new and modern construction methods. Just as is called New Jerusalem — Old Jerusalem, New Paris — Old Paris, the time has come to utter Old Addis — New Addis Ababa.”
However, as seen here, here, and here, Google reverse image search established that four of the images are of projects outside Ethiopia.
The first image was shared on the Pinterest website with this caption, “Palace Of White Roses Sochi, Russia- HQ Photos.”
As seen here and here, the same photo has been used on other websites since 2010.
The other three images, two of which are similar, were published on this website in 2019. The photos had the headline, “Smart Forest City Cancun | Stefano Boeri Architetti.” One of these pictures was shared on this website and it is found in Mexico.
The last photo has previously been used to refer to different places. For instance, the caption of this image shared on the Pinterest website said, “Entoto Park, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.”
The website also used this picture, and the same image was posted on this Instagram account on 15 October 2020.
PesaCheck has examined the Facebook post with images claiming to be of the Chaka project, which is under construction in Addis Ababa, and found it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*bM_q-2kmE2kaYHj2