URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-image-is-not-of-oromia-police-officers-joining-protests-in-december-2022-6e32950d24ad
FALSE: Image is not of Oromia police officers joining protests in December 2022 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-12-14T13:53:16.791Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post claiming this image is of Oromia ​​region police joining the protests in the area in December 2022, is FALSE.
The post in Afaan Oromo translates to; “Oromia police have joined the struggle of their people. They were determined to protect their people from the enemy who came across the border to invade Oromia, claiming that the border of Oromia should be respected. The federal police are trying to intimidate the Oromia police who stand with the people.”
The attacks on the 25 and 29 of November in Kiremu and Gida Ayana districts of East Wollega Zone, which local government authorities and fleeing residents attributed to the “Fano Militia” from the neighbouring Amhara region have left dozens dead and thousands displaced.
On 6 December 2022, protests erupted in towns and cities, and also in schools and university compounds in different places across Oromia following the weekend of violence in East Wollega zone of the Oromia regional state, western Ethiopia.
However, Google reverse image search results established that the photo is not related to the protests in which the Oromia region police officers joined in December 2022.
The official Addis Standard Twitter account published the image on 3 December 2018, with the description: “Ethiopia: Multiple demonstrations are taking in various cities and towns in #Oromia regional state protesting against killings and displacements of civilians in the region. According to several social media accounts, the ongoing protests also involve regional police officers.”
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with an image claiming to be of Oromia state police joining protests in the region in December 2022, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*-nF9_8V5HiSK0F4B