URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-claiming-to-show-a-funeral-procession-with-the-picture-of-ethiopian-prime-50301c022efb
FALSE: This image claiming to show a funeral procession with the picture of Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed on a hearse is false | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-02-15T06:15:43.826Z

Listen
Share
This image, shared on Facebook on January 26, 2021, claims to show a funeral procession with a picture of Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed on a hearse, and captioned “RIP” is FALSE.
The image is further accompanied by a statement in Amharic -“RIP ይባላል እንዴ ለአብይ?”- that translates to “Do we say RIP for Abiy?”
A reverse image search shows that the original picture of the hearse was taken in Addis Ababa on October 6, 2020. It was used by Borkena, an online news outlet, to illustrate a report about the funeral of the late Professor Mesfin Woldemariam, a veteran Ethiopian academic, human rights and political activist.
In the original, the professor’s photo appears on the hearse. This has been replaced with a portrait of Prime Minister Abiy, apparently taken from accounts of his April 2018 meeting with opposition leaders, images of which were shared online: here, here and here.
The Ethiopian premier was not seen in public for several weeks in January 2020 and his social media accounts were unusually inactive during that period, which led to speculation about his health and safety.
However, the Office of the Prime Minister put an end to the speculation with an official update on January 24, 2021.
Moreover, on January 28, the prime minister appeared on state-owned television, Ethiopian Broadcasting Corporation, when the station covered his visit to a centre producing prosthetics for injured members of the armed forces and civilians in Addis Ababa.
PesaCheck has investigated the authenticity of an image shared on Facebook with the text “RIP” scrawled across it and claiming to show the funeral service of Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, and finds that it is FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*i71kfmJ_JfpBDz0D