URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-is-not-related-to-the-recent-chaos-at-a-campaign-rally-in-kondele-7c634827a315
FALSE: This image is not related to the recent chaos at a campaign rally in Kondele | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-11-16T09:27:24.325Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post claiming to show Sergeant Robert Kimeto being arrested for throwing teargas canisters at Kondele residents in Kisumu County is FALSE.
The post claims the incident happened during a rally held by Kenyan Deputy President William Ruto.
According to the post, Kimeto, attached to Londiani Police Station in Kericho County, allegedly had two cartons of tear gas canisters at the time of his arrest.
“He was one of the officers who started throwing teargas canisters at peaceful Kondele residents today during a DP Ruto rally. It’s alleged several officers were ferried to Kisumu to cause chaos and portray Luos as bad people and stone throwers,” the post adds.
We performed a reverse image search of the attached picture and discovered that the photo was first published online in 2019. According to an article by Citizen Digital on 20 November 2019, the man was one of the three traffic officers nabbed for collecting bribes from motorists along the Kisumu-Kakamega Highway.
The traffic officers were arrested by detectives from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and were taken to the commission’s offices before being arraigned in court.
However, from our search results here and here, the traffic police officer’s name was not revealed. We also googled the name ‘Sergeant Robert Kimeto’ but did not find any credible digital footprint relating to him making it hard to determine whether Sergeant Robert Kimeto is a real Kenyan police officer.
On Wednesday, 10 November 2021, youth disrupted Ruto’s political rally at Kondele Ward in Kisumu Central Sub-County. Some threw stones at the convoy of the presidential hopeful prompting police officers deployed in four Toyota Land Cruiser vehicles to disperse the crowd using tear gas. The deputy president managed to speak for about five minutes before the chaos erupted.
Ruto managed to leave safely, but some of the vehicles in his convoy were destroyed. Police dispersed the crowds using tear gas canisters.
According to the National Police Service spokesperson Bruno Isohi, the chaos was caused by the lack of proper distribution of campaign funds for logistics among local groups. Ruto donated Ksh2 million to small-scale traders at Kondele, the same amount as was given to Boda Boda operators in the area. The second in command is touring the Nyanza region to popularise his bottom-up economic model and 2022 presidential bid.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post claiming to show Sergeant Robert Kimeto being arrested for throwing teargas canisters at Kondele residents in Kisumu County during Deputy President William Ruto’s rally and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*YoypYNLYKwtox0bT