URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-oromo-special-forces-marching-to-wolkait-northern-ethiopia-780a3fc5af05
FALSE: These images do not show Oromo special forces marching to Wolkait, northern Ethiopia | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-07-22T07:10:15.101Z

Listen
Share
These Facebook images claiming to show the Oromo special forces going to the Wolkait area of northern Ethiopia, are FALSE.
“The Oromo special forces, who are the descendants of the hero Abdissa Aga, drove to Wolkait in a large number of vehicles. In conjunction with Amhara special forces, the heroic Oromo special forces are going to Wolkait to show support and that they are ready to defend everything that will affect the Ethiopian sovereignty,” part of the post in Amharic reads.
“The Wolkait case is known to be an important factor not only for Amhara but also for Ethiopia’s existence too. Based on this context and following the Ethiopian call, the heroic Oromo special forces marched to Wolkait with great courage and morale to repeat the story of his father, Abdissa Aga,” the post adds.
Hailed as an African hero, Abdissa Aga was an Oromian who fought in the war against Italy in 1936. While he was captured, Abdissa managed to escape and free other prisoners, causing his fame to grow.
The post has used four images to support its claim. However, the images that are used have been published previously to depict different incidents. The first image was used on 28 December 2020, by a website dubbed Karin News.
The Ethiopian newspaper, Addis Maleda, used the second image in its 5 October 2019 publication. The content of the article is about the death of 45 Amhara special forces following the violence in Central Gonder, Chilga Woreda.
The third image was used by a Facebook user on 30 December 2019, in a series of other photos described as showing the graduation ceremony of the Oromia police. The ceremony was broadcast by OBN Afaan Oromoo on 30 December 2019.
Google reverse image search results reveal that the fourth image was used by a Facebook user on 20 December 2020.
The Facebook post comes amid media reports as seen here and here of regional forces sending their troops to Tigray to back military operations in the region.
PesaCheck has looked into Facebook images claiming to show the Oromo special forces going to Wolkait and finds them to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*BKxPW5ikKHOv7ir8