URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-an-eritrean-soldier-captured-in-oromia-930ee6ef6135
FALSE: This image does not show an Eritrean soldier captured in Oromia | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-06-22T12:02:49.917Z

Listen
Share
A Twitter post with an image claiming to show an Eritrean soldier named Sisay Tesfabirhan, who was allegedly captured in Oromia, is FALSE.
The text on the post reads, “His name is Sisay Tesfabirhan, one of the #Eritrean Soldiers who captured today, by #OromoLiberationArmy a.k.a WBO in western #Oromia !”
The Ethiopian government and the Oromo Liberation Front (OLF) signed an agreement to end hostilities on August 7, 2018, in Eritrea’s capital, Asmara.
Previously, OLF had been labelled as a terrorist organisation. However, following the peace agreement signed in Asmara, the Ethiopian House of People’s Representatives (HPR) removed OLF from its terrorist list.
In 2019, it was reported that the Oromo Liberation Army (OLA), which is the armed wing of OLF, officially separated from the party, OLF. The OLF army faulted the national government for what it termed “continued arrest of its members” despite the ceasefire.
A spokesperson from the OLA called for independent investigations over allegations the outfit was responsible for ongoing attacks in the Oromia region, in a statement published by Al Jazeera on March 29, 2021.
In May 2021, the Ethiopian government outlawed the OLA and the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), terming them terrorist organisations.
TPLF troops have been in conflict with the Ethiopian government after Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed launched a military offensive, accusing them of attacking two federal army camps in the northern region of Tigray.
While the Ethiopian government indeed confirmed the presence of Eritrean troops in Tigray, and escalating tension in Oromia, the post claiming to show an image of an Eritrean soldier captured in Oromia is not true.
A reverse image search reveals that the photo was used in 2020. It was published on Somali Spot on April 15, 2020.
The image was cropped from a picture that shows the alleged Eritrean soldier and an unidentified woman. Also, the man is identified as Muuse Muudey who released a Tik Tok video on April 4, 2020.
The same image appears on the thumbnail of a video on YouTube that dates back to 2020.
PesaCheck has investigated a Twitter post with an image claiming to show a person named Sisay Tesfabirhan, an Eritrean soldier, captured in Oromia and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*ybaHMeweBMgcWZzd