URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-picture-does-not-show-deserted-streets-in-mekelle-ethiopia-9f3687b06121
FALSE: This picture does not show deserted streets in Mekelle, Ethiopia | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-12-02T04:52:43.594Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with a picture of what looks like a deserted town and a claim that this is Mekelle, the capital of the Tigray region in Ethiopia, is FALSE.
The post further claims that residents of Mekelle are heeding the call of the Ethiopian National Defence Force (ENDF) and staying at home, adding that the city is rounded by special commandos and army ground forces with mechanised, missile-armed helicopters, jets and drones.
The post, which wishes the ENDF and Ethiopia victory, also contains four other images; one image shows soldiers in fatigues and maroon berets posing, another is of soldiers in uniform and green berets, while a third picture shows airborne helicopters and the last shows armed men walking through a remote area.
In recent weeks, an ongoing operation, sanctioned by Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, has seen the ENDF take control of most cities and towns in the Tigray region except Mekelle and other few places. Mekelle is the stronghold of the regional forces and is occupied by hundreds of thousands of residents and leaders of Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF).
Prime Minister Abiy gave a 72-hour ultimatum to regional forces to surrender or face a military offensive that he says will conclude the operations in Mekelle, even as Tigray’s presidential advisor, Getachew Reda, made calls to residents to “fight the aggression with everything at hand”.
However, the picture used to show that Mekelle streets have been deserted as fears over the looming military confrontation grow is not related to the recent events in the north of Ethiopia. A reverse image search shows the empty street is in Freetown, Sierra Leone, and was taken in April 2020, after a 3-day curfew was declared due to the coronavirus pandemic.
The origin of the other images could not be established immediately as no results are available online.
PesaCheck has looked into the claim that a picture showing a deserted city street in Mekelle, the capital of the Tigray region in Ethiopia, over residents’ fears of a military confrontation, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*IktPVdmdJJQnjJEu