URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-of-a-man-with-a-swollen-face-is-not-from-nairobi-2f7328699621
FALSE: This image of a man with a swollen face is not from Nairobi | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-05-11T14:23:33.168Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image claiming to show a Chinese national who was apparently beaten in Nairobi’s Kilimani area is FALSE.
The man in the image, which was shared on the ‘Jubilee Party Forum’ Facebook page on May 10, has swollen eyes and lips, and the post claims he was allegedly beaten for coughing in front of a security guard.
The image was also posted on Twitter with the same claim.
The claim comes amid reports that Chinese nationals in Kenya are facing hostility over COVID-19, which originated in Wuhan in China’s Hubei province. The post also coincides with the evacuation of 165 Kenyans from China, as well as reports that Africans in China were also facing discrimination amid the pandemic.
These reports, among other global cases of stigma and discrimination related to COVID-19, have been condemned by the World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom, as well as the UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres.
However, a Google image reverse search shows that the photo was first published on April 30 the Facebook page of a Malaysian comedy club. The caption attached to the photo was ‘New Hero. Long Wasp”. However, there is no additional information on where or when the photo was taken.
On May 8, a Reddit user shared the post in the Beekeeping subreddit, suggesting humorously that this was the proof sent by an online seller of honey in response to a request for proof that his wild honey was genuine, indicating that the swelling could be due to bee stings.
PesaCheck has looked into an image claiming to show a Chinese national who was allegedly beaten in Kilimani, Nairobi after coughing in front of a security guard and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*b79Xh8FeEAVKsEUE