URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-the-protests-captured-in-these-images-took-place-in-kenya-not-uganda-89c3718f6b50
FALSE: The protests captured in these images took place in Kenya, not Uganda | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-11-23T06:19:36.270Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with multiple images of civilian protests and a claim that these are from Kotido, Uganda is FALSE.
The post claims the images capture events on day two of protests calling for the release of presidential candidate Robert Kyagulanyi, also known as Bobi Wine.
On November 18, 2020, riots erupted in various towns in Uganda following the arrest of Bobi Wine, who is accused of violating measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus while campaigning in the east of the country.
However, the images in the Facebook post are from Kenya and not Kotido as claimed.
A Google reverse image search of the first image shows that it was first shared in 2017 when youth took to the streets following the disputed election. The image, taken by Agence France-Presse’s (AFP) Tony Karumba, shows residents in Nairobi’s Kibera area clashing with the police, featured in the New York Times.
A reverse image search of the second image reveals it was also taken in Kibera, Nairobi, during post-election protests in 2017. The image was featured in an article by The Newyorker, Sky News and Steemit.
Results from the image search found the third and fourth photo, showing protestors on the street, were also taken during the 2017 post-election protests in Kenya, this time in Mathare, a slum area north of Nairobi.
The third image was taken by Reuters’ photographer Thomas Mukoya and was published by The Guardian, The Telegraph and Matooke Republic, while the fourth photo featured in an article by the New Straits Times and the NewYork Times.
A Google reverse image search of the fifth image shows it was taken on 26 October 2017 in Mathare. The image, showing protesters in running battles with police, was taken by Reuters’ photographer Siegfried Modola. It was featured in an article by the International Crisis Group.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with multiple images claiming to show protests in Uganda and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*wXo8u33HCw-HPOXm