URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-are-not-of-the-conflict-between-the-ethiopian-army-and-amhara-special-forces-3eb254da0468
FALSE: These images are not of the conflict between the Ethiopian army and Amhara Special Forces in Raya town in April 2023 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-04-28T11:57:15.483Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with images supposedly of the confrontation between the Ethiopian National Defence Force (ENDF) and Amhara Special Forces in Raya town in April 2023 is FALSE.
Part of the Amharic text accompanying the photos translates to; “At the moment, it is known that the Amhara Special Force which was at Raya Korum was ordered to leave and landed at the airport because the main road is blocked. It is not known what this Special Force was thinking at this time. We have received information that after leaving the airport and entering the city, they are running to the inner road (cobblestone) in Alamata city and they are shooting sideways.”
The post adds: “The heroic Ethiopian National Defense Forces came down from the patrol and said, “Why are you doing this, it’s not good’’, and it is begging and warning them, but they did not stop shooting. The asphalt is controlled by the Defense Forces. The people of Raya Alamata are under stress as the special forces are still searching for something in the interior.”
In April 2023, Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed declared the intention to integrate all regional special forces with either the national army, federal or regional police. This sparked protests and the exchange of gunfire between federal government and regional forces.
However, Yandex image search results established — as seen here and here — that the photos are unrelated to the conflict between the ENDF and Amhara Special Forces at Raya town in April 2023.
The first image, for instance, was published on journalist Thomas van Linge’s Twitter account on 14 November 2020 with the description, “Ethiopia for the first time since fighting begun ENDF forces have advanced along the Kobo and Alamata road in southern Tigray, seizing the village of Waja of the TPLF”.
The second image was published on the Godar Times Facebook page on 12 July 2021 alongside the text, “Breaking News: Click the link and see it.”
PesaCheck has looked into the Facebook post with images supposedly of the confrontation between the Ethiopian National Defence Force and Amhara Special Forces at Raya town in April 2023 and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/1*OL2nyivM2tyipKMNOo1SCw.png