URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-is-not-of-the-war-between-tigrayan-forces-and-the-ethiopian-federal-government-276130865c85
FALSE: This image is not of the war between Tigrayan forces and the Ethiopian Federal Government troops | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-08-24T11:40:59.847Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with an image claiming to show the fighting between Tigrayan forces and Ethiopian federal government soldiers is FALSE.
The post in Amharic translates as; “The war has officially started between Tigray and the federal government. The war is being fought on two fronts through Adi Ramets and Adi Goshu. Following this, the Eritrean government is said to have moved the army closer. According to political analysts, the war the TPLF has started now, it is not going to fight against the federal government. It is being said that it is a war planned by the westerners to dethrone Isaias Afewerke, who is hated by the western world. It is being said that the war in Adi Goshu and Adi Ramets was done to deceive the Eritrean government.”
This is another similar claim.
To advance the claim, an image is attached to the post. Our search for results from Google reverse image established that the claimed picture was taken in June 2000.
The picture was shared on this website in August 2019, with the caption of the image stating: “Main photo: An Ethiopian tank near Zalambessa during the war with Eritrea; June 2000.” Image credit is given to Petterik Wiggers.
As seen here, here, and here, the same image was published on other websites before 2022.
The Tigrayan forces and the Federal Government of Ethiopia troops agreed to a truce in March 2022 to facilitate the delivery of humanitarian assistance to war victims in Tigray.
However, in August 2022, Tigrayan forces claimed that the Federal Government troops attacked them, violating the ceasefire agreement. The Federal Government has refuted the accusation.
PesaCheck has examined a Facebook post with an image claiming to show the war between Tigrayan forces and Ethiopian Federal Government soldiers and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*4_kDHiQbPMzDsoy7