URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-world-heritage-site-of-lalibela-being-destroyed-by-tigray-forces-eb29d687d738
FALSE: This image does not show World Heritage site of Lalibela being destroyed by Tigray forces | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-08-22T11:29:18.372Z

Listen
Share
An image posted online to advance a narrative that Lalibela, a distinctive town in Ethiopia known for its rock-cut churches, has been destroyed by the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), is FALSE.
The Facebook post claims that “TPLF, which has allied with Satan to destroy Orthodox Tewahedo and Ethiopia, entered Lalibela a few minutes ago”.
“And it began destruction, as it has done in the past,” the post in Amharic states.
However, a Google reverse image search shows the image used to support the claim has previously been published on a website dubbed “Fine Art America” for sale.
“Biete Amanuel underground Orthodox monolith Lalibela, Ethiopia Canvas Print,” the description of the website reads. Fine Art America is an online marketplace for a variety of artworks.
Lalibela was built from a single rock during the 12th and 13th centuries, and is considered a holy place by Ethiopian Orthodox Christians. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) declared the town a World Heritage site in 1978. Lalibela is found in the North Wollo Zone of the Amhara region.
The escalating civil war in the Tigray region of Ethiopia has created fear that Lalibela, which is under the control of TPLF, may be destroyed. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ethiopia shared this concern but promised to take all necessary measures to protect this and other sites.
The government has urged the international community to denounce the acts of the TPLF. Recently, the United States called on the TPLF to respect the historical sites in Lalibela. There have been no reports indicating the destruction of Lalibela.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook image that is used to support a claim that Lalibela has been destroyed by TPLF forces and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*8wnXole_2X9za4H6