URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-doesnt-show-an-eagle-snatching-a-drone-covering-a-political-rally-in-kenya-392e360408e2
FALSE: This image doesn’t show an eagle snatching a drone covering a political rally in Kenya | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-08-09T11:23:16.127Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with an image purportedly showing an eagle grasping a drone at Kasarani Stadium, Nairobi, during Azimio la Umoja’s final rally is FALSE.
The image was also shared here and here.
“Big blow to Raila Odinga’s Azimio event as an eagle snatches a drone used to cover the AZIMIO KASARANI EVENT and vanishes into thin air,” the post reads.
A different post claims the eagle grasped a drone covering Kenya Kwanza’s final rally at Nyayo Stadium. Other posts, as seen here and here, claim that the incident “disrupted UDA’s final rally”.
Kenya’s leading presidential aspirants, Raila Odinga and William Ruto, held their last election rallies on 6 August 2022, as per the deadline stipulated by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to end political campaigns, ahead of the 9 August 2022 polls.
Odinga’s Azimio la Umoja coalition was at Kasarani Stadium, while Ruto’s Kenya Kwanza rally was held at Nyayo Stadium. The eagle in question was, however, not spotted at either of the rallies.
A Google reverse search reveals that the image dates back to 2016.
“TOPSHOT — An eagle of the Guard from Above company, grasps a drone during a police exercise in Katwijk, on March 7, 2016. The bird of prey can get drones from the air by catching them with his legs,” reads the caption in part.
The photo on Getty Images is credited to photographer Koen Van Weel.
The Guard From Above company, based in the Netherlands, uses birds of prey to intercept hostile drones.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post purportedly showing an eagle grasping a drone at a political rally in Kenya and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*U_zmjHfxiMe1SEIN