URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-image-is-not-of-fulani-militants-captured-in-nigeria-6085eab22182
FALSE: Image is not of Fulani militants captured in Nigeria | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-11-30T07:41:55.385Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post claiming to show images of 23 Fulani “terrorists” captured in Ebonyi/Enugwu State border in Nigeria is FALSE.
“BREAKING NEWS: Over 23 Fulani Terrorists Have Been Captured By Men On Ground Along Ebonyi/Enugwu State Border Today 5th November 2022,” the Facebook post states.
Two images are attached to the post. The first image is of weapons on the ground, among them, AK47s and ammunition. The second image is of some men seated in two rows.
But are these men the Fulani “terrorists” captured along the Ebonyi/Enugwu State border? We checked.
Our reverse image search of the second image shows that the men are Ethiopians arrested for illegal entry into Malawi. The 22 suspects were arrested on 21 March 2022 aboard one of two minibuses headed to Nambuma trading centre.
Well-wishers informed the Nambuma police unit officers of the presence of the migrants. The officers intercepted the minibus with the 22 Ethiopians, whose destination was Zambia.
A reverse search of the first image led us to an article published by another fact-checking organisation that had traced the origin of the image to Somalia. The image, published in 2019, is of weapons and foodstuff recovered after “terrorist militants” attempted to attack the Balidogle base in the Horn of Africa country.
Further research indicates that the attack happened at a US training base at Baledogle. The base houses US special forces, Somali special forces and Ugandan peacekeepers.
The Al-Shabaab acknowledged that they were responsible for the attack. The Somali military said it suffered no casualties.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post claiming to show 23 Fulani “terrorists” captured in Ebonyi/Enugwu State border in Nigeria and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*TY7U08m1xDZ7sPBK