URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-showing-people-taking-cover-from-tear-gas-was-not-taken-in-bonchari-western-1e6f02e462fd
FALSE: This image showing people taking cover from tear gas was not taken in Bonchari, western Kenya | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-05-25T07:32:10.964Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook claiming to show people running to get out of a cloud of tear gas in Bonchari, Kisii County, is FALSE.
The image shows a chaotic scene with people scampering to safety as a thick white cloud of tear gas rises above them.
The image was shared on May 18, 2021, the day a by-election to elect a new member of the National Assembly for Bonchari took place. The by-election saw Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party’s Robert Oimeke win narrowly against the ruling Jubilee party’s Zebedeo Opore.
The by-election was punctuated with claims of intimidation, bribery, and reports of the arrest of party officials, drawing condemnation from former prime minister and ODM leader Raila Odinga.
The text accompanying the image suggests that the said chaos is an indication that the symbolic handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Mr Odinga to signal an end to their then bitter political rivalry, is on its deathbed.
The post further claims that among those who were arrested, was Paul Ongili alias Babu Owino, the member of parliament for Embakasi constituency, even though he was photographed receiving a leadership award on the day.
ODM’s director of elections and Suna East constituency MP, Junet Mohamed, and party chairman and Suba South constituency MP, John Mbadi, are among those seen in the image in question scampering to safety, the post adds.
However, a Google reverse image search shows that the photo was not taken in Bonchari, and neither is it related to the by-election in the constituency as claimed.
The image has been published alongside a number of articles, one of which is by the BBC, on a December 22, 2016 report. The article reports that MPs of the defunct Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (CORD) stormed out of parliament following a chaotic debate on electoral laws.
The caption of the picture, which is credited to Getty Images, states that the image was taken in May 2016, and shows supporters of Mr Odinga running away after they were dispersed by riot police.
The image is also available on the Getty Images website with the description stating it was taken at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) premises in Nairobi. The image is credited to AFP photographer Tony Karumba.
PesaCheck has looked into the image claiming to show people running away from a cloud of tear gas in Bonchari and finds it to be FALSE.
Editor’s note: An earlier version of this article misspelt the name of Mr Robert Oimeke.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*YbPAyVigbKttfEpJ