URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-the-man-in-the-photo-is-not-kenyan-and-has-not-become-a-billionaire-after-the-death-of-his-2cdd9e1a9ed9
FALSE: The man in the photo is not Kenyan and has not become a billionaire after the death of his elder wife | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-11-16T09:38:05.075Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post claiming to show a Kenyan man who became a billionaire after the death of his 73-year-old wife is FALSE.
According to the post, “Dr Wachira”, a Kenyan-born neurosurgeon based in Florida, United States, and the deceased’s husband, broke the sad news on social media.
“The love of my life is no more. She passed away this evening. I would give everything to bring her back,” the post quotes Dr Wachira as saying.
It identifies the deceased as Julia Donson Wachira, who died three days after tying the knot with her 34-year-old husband, Dr John Wachira.
Additionally, the post claims that Dr Wachira is bound to inherit Donson’s multi-billion business. Her businesses include real estate and a media company with branches in five states in the United States (US) according to the post.
However, after performing a Google reverse image search, PesaCheck discovered that the couple pictured are Quran McCain and Cheryl McGregor from Rome, Georgia, in the US. Additionally, the man is aged 24, and his spouse is 61. According to The Sun, the couple wedded on 3 September 2021, and their wedding ceremony was streamed live on Tiktok.
The couple first met when McCain was 15 years old at a fast-food restaurant where he worked, and McGregor’s son managed the joint. However, the pair started dating when McCain was 23.
We managed to trace McGregor’s Tiktok account and discovered that she shared a video of herself and her husband on 10 November 2021, days after the alleged death.
The 37 year age gap between McGregor and McCain has provoked a lot of reactions online about the relationship. While some have bullied McGregor for her dancing, others accused McCain of marrying for the money. The couple has become a tremendous Tiktok sensation, with McGregor currently at 1.1million followers and her husband, McCain, at 640,200 followers.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post claiming to show a Kenyan man who became a billionaire after the death of his 73-year-old wife and found it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*KmFYxbp3L_12wvI0