URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-women-and-children-fleeing-their-homes-during-the-2007-5f8530fd4948
FALSE: This image does not show women and children fleeing their homes during the 2007 post-election violence in Kenya | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-02-28T08:53:50.085Z

Listen
Share
A tweet with an image claiming to show internally displaced women and children running for their lives in 2007 as they fled violent conflict is FALSE.
The image shows women and children carrying their belongings, seeming to be heading to one destination.
The post caption read, “Every five years lives and properties worth millions are lost, as we head to 2022 we say No to divisive Politics . We need to work together before, during and after elections.”
A Google reverse image search shows that the photo has been altered. The original image does not have fire in the background.
The original, unaltered image has been used in a publication with the caption, “Villagers fleeing gunfire in a camp for internally displaced persons during the 2008 Nord-Kivu war in the DRC.”
The image was credited to Julien Harneis, who first shared the photo on Flickr, which was reviewed and confirmed to be licenced under the term cc-by-sa-2.0.
In his post, he confirmed that the photo was taken in November 2008, and shows events during the Nord-Kivu conflict.
Mr Julien wrote in the Flickr post, “I was on the outskirts of Kibati camp to oversee our emergency measles vaccination. It was in the same location as an ICRC WFP food distribution. We heard shooting the other side of the camp less than a kilometer away, single shots and automatic for about 15 minutes. People fled the distribution, ran to the camp, picked up their belongings and hurried down the hill to Goma. A crowd gathered around an abandoned food truck and started to loot it until government military police came in to restore order. As we drove back more than 200 very tense government troops trudged up the hill, announcing worse to come.”
The image has also been used, here and here, and both attributed it to Mr Julien.
PesaCheck has looked into a tweet with an image claiming to show internally displaced women and children running for their lives during the post-election violence in 2007 and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*ZIAmLJAUbRKK3cch