URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-isnt-of-russian-military-equipment-used-to-disable-ukraine-s-weapons-daef46a66d67
FALSE: This image isn’t of Russian military equipment used to disable Ukraine’s weapons | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-11-28T11:55:05.450Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image purportedly of Russian military equipment that would disable Ukraine’s weapons is FALSE.
“Russia is going to hurt Ukraine,” the headline of the post in Amharic shared on 11 November 2022 reads.
“Russia is armed with military weapons that would disable Ukraine’s weapons,” the post reads in part.
“New developments have taken place in the recent months and it has been reported that Russian special forces in Ukraine may be using electromagnetics to disable Ukrainian weapons,” the post adds.
“According to a report by the British Times newspaper, the Russian special forces are armed with a technology known as “Spetsnaz”, which is said to disable Ukrainian weapons within 10 kilometres,” the post explains.
An Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) report shows that there were 16,295 civilian casualties (6,430 killed and 9,865 injured) documented from 24 February 2022 to 30 October 2022 in Ukraine.
On 11 November 2022, The Times, a British daily newspaper, published a report titled “How Russia could use electromagnetic pulse weapons to cripple Ukraine”. The report presents a new technology by Russia that would disable Ukrainian electronic devices.
The post we are investigating refers to this report.
However, PesaCheck has established that the description of the Russian weapon and the image attached to the post are misleading.
First, the post refers to the technology that the Russian special force is equipped with as “Spetsnaz”, while the Times reported the technology is known as “Electromagnetic pulse (EMP)- which would disable Ukrainians electronic devices within six miles.” Spetsnaz is the name given to the Russian special forces as seen here and here.
Moreover, the image attached to the post is not related to the Russian military equipment that can disable Ukraine’s weapons.
Google reverse image search results provide that the image is of Ukrainian soldiers in the Kharkiv region, Ukraine, in August 2022.
The image was captured by Reuters photographer Sofiia Gatilova, and it is of Ukrainian soldiers firing a weapon named M777 against Russian forces in Kharkiv region on 1 August 2022.
PesaCheck has investigated a Facebook post with an image claiming to be of a Russian military equipment that would disable Ukraine’s weapons and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*Wcgm2K_zU2Ei-UWG