URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-eritrea-djibouti-and-somalia-deploying-soldiers-to-ethiopia-ff2b0d57b1e7
FALSE: These images do not show Eritrea, Djibouti, and Somalia deploying soldiers to Ethiopia | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-11-11T12:18:56.696Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post accompanied by images claiming to show Eritrea, Djibouti, and Somalia deploying their soldiers in Ethiopia is FALSE.
The post in Afaan Oromoo translates, “Eritrea, Djibouti, and Somalia have sent their troops to Ethiopia in support of the country”.
It is accompanied by four photos of armed uniformed soldiers, in what looks like a military parade.
The conflict in the Tigray region of Ethiopia has expanded to other regions over the past year, causing a crisis for the country. The Ethiopian government declared a six-month state of emergency on 2 November 2021 following the Tigray forces’ claim that they control cities in the Amhara region.
On 5 November 2021, the United Nations Security Council expressed grave concern over conflict escalation in northern Ethiopia. The United States also strongly urged a negotiated ceasefire by all warring parties to end the devastating war.
Though the post claims to show the three Horn of Africa countries deploying soldiers in Ethiopia, PesaCheck has found out that this is untrue.
Reverse image searches on Google show that three of the four photos in the post, are taken from a Facebook page of Somalia National Defense posted on 13 October 2021 along with other pictures.
A “#Somali_National_Army’s🇸🇴” accompanied the images. The images show a military parade in Mogadishu on 12 October 2021 in an event attended by different officials including Somalia President, Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed.
A reverse image search for the fourth image reveals it shows an operation of the African Union Mission to Somalia (AMISOM) troops. The image was shared on the AMISOM Facebook page in October 2021. The image was taken during a joint AMISOM — Somali National Army (SNA) operation in the Lower Shabelle region against Al-Shabaab militants.
PesaCheck has looked into a post shared on Facebook claiming to show the Eritrea, Djibouti and Somalia government deploying their troops in Ethiopia and found it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*nFdxpPlN7ew6o4Ad