URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-photo-does-not-show-queen-elizabeth-ii-and-prince-philip-bowing-before-the-ethiopian-9d0e7c858609
FALSE: This photo does not show Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip bowing before the Ethiopian emperor | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-04-16T06:49:28.568Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook claiming to show Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip bowing before the Ethiopian emperor and empress is FALSE.
The text in the image praises the late Duke of Edinburgh Prince Philip and his wife Queen Elizabeth II for showing respect to the “real original African Royalty”. This is in reference to Ethiopian Empress Menen Asfaw and her husband Emperor Ras Tafari Makonnen Woldemikael Haile Selassie I.
“Rare photo of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip bowing before the real original African Royalty. Empress Menen Asfaw and her husband Emperor Ras Tafari Makonnen Woldemikael Haile Selassie I of Ethiopia,” the text in the image reads.
A reverse search of the image reveals that the people pictured are Emperor Haile Selassie and his wife greeting their guests, who are not identified in the caption. The original image has been licensed to Getty Images and was taken in 1955 in Ethiopia by Alfred Eisenstaedt.
However, the two people bowing before the Emperor and his wife cannot be Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip. The Queen’s first visit to Ethiopia took place in 1965, 10 years after the image in question was taken. Ethiopian Emperor Haile Selassie I welcomed his royal guests at the airport for the week-long visit from February 1–8, 1965 and hosted a series of events that were marked with pomp.
The British monarchy’s state visit was made in response to Emperor Haile Selassie’s state visit to London on October 14, 1954 while Sir Winston Churchill was prime minister.
In 1936, following the invasion of Ethiopia by Italy, under Prime Minister Benito Mussolini, Emperor Haile Selassie I had previously been forced into exile in Bath, England where he lived until 1940.
PesaCheck has looked into an image shared on Facebook claiming to show Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip bowing before the Ethiopian emperor and empress and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*zX3_1heSq83TZJJD