URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-ex-kenyan-president-uhuru-kenyatta-attending-queen-elizabeths-fc158694bfc7
FALSE: This image does not show ex-Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta attending Queen Elizabeth’s funeral | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-09-29T13:23:13.569Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image purportedly showing retired Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta in London on 19 September 2022 attending Queen Elizabeth II’s funeral is FALSE.
The post reads: “Earlier today, President Uhuru Kenyatta arrived in London, United Kingdom, to attend the funeral of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II.”
Kenyatta condoled with the Royal Family after the passing on of Queen Elizabeth II and declared three days of national mourning in her honour. He was, however, not among the world leaders who attended the queen’s funeral on 19 September. Kenya’s new President William Ruto and First Lady Rachel Ruto were in attendance.
Kenyatta has not made a public appearance since Ruto’s inauguration on 13 September 2022, and the image used in the claim is old.
A Google reverse search shows that the photo was taken on 21 January 2020 when Kenyatta visited Britain for the UK-Africa Investment Summit. State House Kenya shared the photo via Twitter alongside other pictures from the visit.
“President Uhuru Kenyatta last evening attended a reception for the Heads of State participating in the UK-Africa Investment Summit in London. The reception was hosted by the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, Prince William and Kate Middleton at Buckingham Palace. @RoyalFamily,” reads the tweet.
The claim was posted by an account impersonating the retired president. Kenyatta deactivated his social media accounts in 2019.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with an image purportedly showing retired President Uhuru Kenyatta in London for the funeral of Queen Elizabeth II and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*HwG39Sxtk1zUrAlK