URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-is-not-related-to-the-conflict-in-tigray-ethiopia-4387e727e681
FALSE: This image is not related to the conflict in Tigray, Ethiopia | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-09-05T09:29:54.893Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with an image claiming to show a drone flying around in Tigray, northern Ethiopia, is FALSE.
The post in Amharic translates as; “The movement of war drones in Tigray. Sources told us that following the official beginning of the war, Abiy Ahmed’s war drones are flying around the border areas of Tigray. ”
“The information we have received indicates that drone activity has been observed repeatedly since last night, especially in the city of Alamata and its surroundings. In order to carry out the invasion plan and to inflict more massacres on the people, the administration of Abiy Ahmed moved four military drones to the Semera airport last week and made them ready for the Raya front and they have sent four military drones to the Bahir Dar airport for the flight on the western front,” the translation continues.
The post further says: “Among the nine unmanned aerial vehicles (drones) belonging to Abiy Ahmed’s administration, four are ready for war in Semera, while the other four are said to be on alert in Bahir Dar and the information we got from the sources indicates that one of them is moving across Oromia and carrying out attacks.
“It is to be remembered that seven of the nine drones were recently repaired and returned from China. It should be remembered that the Oryx website reported that the administration of Abiy Ahmed has imported more than 23 war drones from different countries, either through loans or purchases. Out of the 23 drones, 11 belong to the Ethiopian government and 2 of them crashed, leaving the remaining drones 9.”
To advance the claim, an image that shows a drone is attached to the post. This is similar to a claim that was posted on Facebook by another social media user.
But results from Google reverse image search showed that the image has been online since 2018. Also, it is unrelated to the conflict in Tigray and in Oromia.
The image was shared on this website on 20 June 2018 to support an article with the title, “Predator B drone completes lightning tests.”
As seen here and here, the same image was published on other websites too.
After six months of a cease-fire, the war in the northern parts of Ethiopia resumed in August 2022. The claim was made in this context. Nonetheless, there is no report of a drone attack, although Tigray forces accused federal forces of firing on their troops. On its part, the federal government of Ethiopia has blamed Tigray forces for the resumption of the war.
PesaCheck has examined a Facebook post with an image claiming to show a drone moving around in Tigray in the northern parts of Ethiopia and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*3lacwSA4PYv5CJfr