URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-the-police-officer-who-disrupted-signature-collection-in-bomet-is-not-shown-in-this-image-62a346cc85c7
FALSE: The police officer who disrupted signature collection in Bomet is not shown in this image | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-12-10T06:21:56.895Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post that claims to show a police officer in Bomet who allegedly tore the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) signature collection book into pieces is FALSE.
The image shows a handcuffed man standing between a uniformed officer and an unidentified man in civilian clothes, with a police officer behind them. The four are standing outside what looks like a government building — painted with the colours of the Kenyan flag.
The post explains that the man in handcuffs is Peter Langat, a police officer in Bomet county, who interrupted a signature collection exercise in Lelekwet village.
Mr Langat allegedly asked the area assistant chief for permission to sign the signature book, but instead tore it to pieces and threw it into a river. The post then asks users whether Mr Langat should be celebrated or arrested.
It is true that a police officer named Peter Langat from Bomet county indeed tore the BBI signature collection book, an incident that was reported on various news outlets including K24 and the Daily Nation.
The assistant chief of Kipseres sub-location in Bomet East, Robert Katam, confirmed to PesaCheck that the incident took place in his area on December 2, 2020.
“The police officer has since been apprehended, taken to Longisa police station, and later arraigned, then freed on bond,” Mr Katam said.
However, the administrator said the image in the post does not show Constable Langat as claimed.
A Google reverse image search brings up an article by the Daily Nation dated August 12, 2019, with the same image alongside it. The caption identifies the man in handcuffs as an Officer Commanding Station (OCS), chief inspector Shadrack Mumo, attached to the Kizingitini police station in Lamu county on the coast of Kenya.
The story reports that chief inspector Mumo was arrested in connection with the release of a drug trafficker and his consignment of drugs under unclear circumstances from the station where the inspector worked.
Another article by Kenyans.co.ke uses the same image and confirms the name of the officer as chief inspector Mumo with a second image of him facing the camera while handcuffed. In both articles, a sign on the door of the building in the photo reads ‘Lamu Central Sub-county CIPU Commander’. Since Constable Langat committed the offence in Bomet, it is unlikely that he would have been charged in Lamu county.
PesaCheck has looked into the Facebook post with an image claiming to show a police officer in Bomet who allegedly tore the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) signature collection book, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*GSvAPwiFSM_HlBBY