URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-photos-of-locusts-are-from-kenya-and-somalia-not-tanzania-as-claimed-33e4a648bd8a
FALSE : These photos of locusts are from Kenya and Somalia, not Tanzania as claimed | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-02-13T06:37:40.907Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post claiming to show a locust swarm in Tanzania contains images taken out of context.
According to the post, the locust swarm was in Tanzania, and it would move towards southern Africa.
However, the post contains images from Kenya and Somalia.
A reverse image search shows that the first photo was posted on Twitter on January 27, 2020, showing a road covered with locusts in Kenya’s Kitui County.
The image was also published in The Standard newspaper on February 2.
The second photo was published alongside an article on locusts in Somalia by Reuters on January 4, 2020.
According to the Food and Agriculture Organization’s desert locust situation report dated 10 February, desert locusts had crossed Kenya’s southern border and into northern Tanzania close to Mt. Kilimanjaro, reaching Arusha and Moshi.
FAO Situation Map showing areas affected and likely to be affected by the desert locust invasion as at 10 February
Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner Ms Anna Mghwira said on February 10 that experts had been deployed to the Kilimanjaro Region to determine if the locusts had reached Tanzania, adding that there were reports that locusts had been spotted in a village in Moshi, Kilimanjaro before the swarm disappeared.
On 10 February again,Ms Mghwira had stated that there was no formal confirmation on the presence of locusts in the Kilimanjaro region, adding that reports indicated the swarms were 50 km from Mwanga, near Taveta in Kenya. She indicated that they were in communication with Kenyan Authorities, who confirmed that Taveta and parts of Kenya neighbouring the Kilimanjaro region have not been affected by locusts yet.
PesaCheck has looked into the authenticity of pictures shared on a post claiming to show a locust swarm in Tanzania and finds that they were taken out of context, and therefore FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*YR3tnzaHobjOGyxy