URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-eritrean-soldiers-who-destroyed-tigray-forces-around-sheraro-in-3e98db8d5819
FALSE: This image does not show Eritrean soldiers who destroyed Tigray forces around Sheraro in Ethiopia | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-11-30T11:01:57.899Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook image claiming to show Eritrean soldiers who destroyed Tigray forces around Sheraro area of the Tigray region is FALSE.
“It is well known that the leader of the terrorist group Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) announced weeks ago that they were planning to attack and invade Eritrea. It is known that following the threat of the Junta leader, Eritrea has reportedly deployed its troops along the border Zalambassa, Alge, Tsorena, Shiraro and Badme. Even if the TPLF, which is on the verge of extinction and is accelerating its demise, is trying to attack the Eritrean army, which has been waiting across the border, the heroic Eritrean army not only repulsed the attack but also destroyed the Junta group that had tried march forward on the Shiraro front,” the post in Amharic reads.
The post has used one image to advance its claim. However, Google, TinEye, and Yandex reverse image search results, as seen here, here, and here, reveal that the image shows Saudi soldiers.
Part of the description of the image on the Alamy website says “Saudi soldiers keep watch at Khoba, the frontline border with Yemen”.
The image was taken on 27 January 2010 and credit is given to Fahad Shadeed.
It was reported that Eritrean soldiers were involved in the war in the Tigray region that started in November 2020. However, the image under investigation shows neither the Tigray region of Sheraro nor Eritrean forces.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook image claiming to show Eritrean soldiers who destroyed Tigray forces around Sheraro area of the Tigray region and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*iFhwPssHE7FwVL2x