URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-destruction-of-140-educational-institutions-by-tplf-3df2c027d21
FALSE: These images do not show destruction of 140 educational institutions by TPLF | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-09-13T12:21:53.028Z

Listen
Share
These images posted on Facebook claiming to show 140 educational institutions destroyed by Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) are FALSE.
The post claims the destruction took place in the Amhara region, where a conflict earlier confined to the Tigray region spread.
“In the Amhara, 140 educational institutions are completely and partially destroyed by the terrorist group TPLF,” reads part of the text accompanying the photos.
“Although the destruction of 140 educational institutions is known, it is unknown at this time what happened to the 2,800 schools in Wag Hemra and North Wollo districts where the terrorist group did not leave the area. Amhara Regional State Education Bureau,” the post in Amharic adds.
However, Google reverse image search results, here and here, reveal that the images show buildings that collapsed in the United States as a result of being hit by tornadoes.
The first image, along with others, was previously published on the Hypothetical Tornadoes Wiki website in an article looking at destruction resulting from a hypothetical tornado dubbed the 2022 San Diego-Carlsbad-Vista. It was originally published by The Dallas Morning News with the caption “Tornado damage is seen (in) an aerial view of Thomas Jefferson High School on Monday, Oct. 21, 2019, in Dallas”, with credit for the photo shared between(Smiley N. Pool and The Dallas Morning News.
The second image is available on the Agefotostock website. The description of the picture says, “Debris surrounds the destroyed Joplin High School in Joplin, Missouri, May 25, 2011”.
The ongoing war has led to destruction of infrastructure, including schools. On 30 August 2021, Ethiopia’s Education minister, Getahun Mekuria, decried the damage to “more than 7,000 schools”, saying as a result of the war, “more than 1.42M students have been out of school already (in #Tigray) or will be out of school (in Afar, Amhara)”.
Nonetheless, the photos have nothing to do with the ongoing conflict in northern Ethiopia.
PesaCheck has looked into the Facebook images claiming to show schools destroyed by TPLF and finds them to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*yCOq56d963UCpQEi