URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-images-in-this-post-are-not-of-the-eritrean-army-202681a99edf
FALSE: Images in this post are not of the Eritrean army | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-12-06T08:16:25.884Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with images claiming to be of Eritrean soldiers advancing in the northern parts of Ethiopia is FALSE.
The image is accompanied by a post in English that said: “The Eritrean army is moved. Emerging news coming from northern Ethiopia seems undeniably scary. TPLF is taking out the play card for another game to put the two sisterly countries on fire. But Eritrea is playing wise even if the Abiy Ahmed regime is falling under the TPLF playground mistakenly again and again. Isaias is well aware of the north politics and he smartly managed well the Western US aligned sanctions and sabotages in Eritrea that didn’t work at all.”
The Amharic parts of the post also claim that Eritrea has sent some of its troops to the war zone.
But results from Google reverse image search established that the photo is unrelated to the Eritrean army.
The picture was shared on this website on 16 February 2021. More details indicate the photo was taken in 2018.
The same image was published on this website in May 2022 together with other pictures. As seen in the screenshot below, a scrutiny of the image shows a Cameroon flag on one of the soldiers’ uniform.
Cameroonian troops in uniform are seen here and here.
The second claim image is of the Eritrean flag, a military vehicle, and Eritrean President Isaias Afwerki.
Media reports indicate the involvement of Eritreans in the Ethiopian conflict. However, Eritrea did not take part in the peace talks and agreement between the Ethiopian federal government and Tigray forces — the warring parties.
Following the peace agreement, the United States and Tigray forces demanded the withdrawal of Eritrean troops from Tigray.
PesaCheck has examined the Facebook post with images purportedly of Eritrean soldiers moving in the northern parts of Ethiopia and found it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*k8ZLSPxQ42CnFzkd