URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-image-is-not-of-a-sexually-explicit-textbook-being-used-in-kenyas-cbc-education-system-a047d95d4b8e
FALSE: Image is not of a sexually explicit textbook being used in Kenya’s CBC education system | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-11-30T08:34:47.718Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image of a book containing sexually explicit content purportedly being used in Kenya’s Competence Based Curriculum (CBC) education system is FALSE.
“Is this the CBC you all said our children should be taught?” the post asks in Swahili.
A reverse image search on Microsoft Bing indicates that the image was shared in a tweet as early as 2018 by South African journalist Bongani Bingwa, seeking feedback from his followers.
Elijah Mhlanga, the South African Department of Basic Education spokesperson, dismissed as fake news the claims of graphic illustrations being used by learners in 2019.
The image has also been a subject of discussion in Nigeria over the years.
In 2017 Kenya unveiled the CBC under the 2–6–3–3 system of education to replace the 8–4–4 system introduced by the late President Daniel arap Moi in 1985. The new system focuses on the development of skills, promotion of knowledge and application of competencies.
The publication in question is not part of the CBC materials approved for learning. The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD) has in the past stated that the book is not approved for use in Kenyan schools. A similar claim had been made in 2020.
“This book is not approved by KICD. The orange book contains a list of books approved by KICD for use in schools. The orange book is available on KICD website https://kicd.ac.ke/cbc-materials/the-orange-book/…” the post reads.
According to a debunk published by AFP on 25 November 2019, the book is identified as “Het die Ooievaar My Gebring?” translated by Richard Pooler in Afrikaans, one of South Africa’s official languages. It was originally published in English as Did the Stork Bring Me?
A search for the book shows that it was released in South Africa in December 2003, but it is presently out of stock. From the product description, the book was meant to teach children how to protect themselves from the AIDS scourge using “Facts of life” and “without clouding issues or hiding behind falsehood and euphemism.”
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with an image of a book with explicit sexual content purportedly being used in Kenya’s Competence Based Curriculum (CBC) system of education and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*AqkywtEqy00hSd3S