URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-the-women-in-this-image-are-not-co-wives-of-tanzanias-president-samia-suluhu-hassan-f34515054b00
FALSE: The women in this image are not co-wives of Tanzania’s President Samia Suluhu Hassan | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-04-19T06:48:03.129Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook claiming to show Tanzania’s President, Samia Suluhu Hassan, with her co-wives at a family meeting chaired by their husband Hafidh Ameir, is FALSE.
The image shows President Suluhu Hassan seated alongside three other women dressed in hijabs and traditional African print clothing.
In the photo, President Suluhu Hassan, seated on the second left of the image, holds a handbook containing the Tanzanian flag colours printed on its cover.
The photo has been shared by a number of social media users making similar claims here, here, here and here.
PesaCheck has found that President Suluhu Hassan was not attending a family meeting convened by her husband nor was she seated with her co-wives as claimed in the caption accompanying the photo.
A tweet from State House Tanzania indicates that the photo was taken during special prayers for the late Amani Abeid Karume, the first President of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar. The event took place on the day of the late Karume’s commemoration, known as Karume Day, on April 7, 2021, at the offices of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) Kisiwandui, where he was buried.
The tweet further identified some of the women in the photo that are seated with President Suluhu.
They include; First Lady of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar, Mariam Mwinyi, and Permanent Secretary to the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar Engineer, Zena Said.
PesaCheck has looked into the image shared on Facebook claiming to show Tanzania’s President Samia Suluhu Hassan, with her co-wives at a family meeting chaired by their husband, Hafidh Ameir, and finds it is FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*YIli39EC2eJUlcyh