URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-photos-do-not-show-a-man-in-swimming-trunks-being-denied-entry-into-kenya-e1fba4275396
FALSE: These photos do not show a man in swimming trunks being denied entry into Kenya | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-06-29T14:20:00.042Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with photos claiming to show a man being denied entry into Kenya at the nation’s border with Tanzania is FALSE.
The man is pictured holding two suitcases and is dressed only in swimming trunks. He is also seen talking to police officers in one of the photos.
The post alleges that he was denied entry into Kenya for dressing inappropriately and insulting the security officials.
However, the Kenya — Tanzania border remains closed to all traffic except cargo as announced by President Uhuru Kenyatta on May 16, as a protective measure against the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. It is therefore unlikely that the traveller would be allowed entry into the country anyway.
A reverse image search shows that the photo was first shared online on November 1, 2016, by a number of users, including a Malawian gossip tabloid that claimed the photo was taken at Kamuzu International Airport in Malawi.
The photo was initially captioned by Malawi News as showing a South African traveller allegedly attempting to travel while under the influence of drugs.
However, an article published by Maravi Post identified the man in the picture as Greig Bannatyne, a member of Madswimmer, a charity organisation which engages in swimming adventures to raise funds for children’s charities in southern Africa.
Mr Bannatyne was one of seven swimmers who crossed Lake Malawi to raise funds for Madswimmer. As a publicity stunt, he later boarded a flight back to South Africa wearing only his swimming trunks to raise awareness about the charity.
PesaCheck has looked into photos claiming to show a man being denied entry into Kenya at the border with Tanzania and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*TBMV5XZUm3bntqPy