URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-are-not-of-kdf-soldiers-in-mandera-in-march-2020-1034d7c63a1c
FALSE: These images are not of KDF Soldiers in Mandera in March 2020 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-03-13T14:10:14.195Z

Listen
Share
A tweet with photos claiming to show soldiers from the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) soldiers deployed to Mandera is Misleading.
The tweet also claims that former Jubaland Security Minister Abdirashid Janan was in hiding in the Mandera Police Station. Janan was arrested in Somalia for on 31 August 2019 for ‘serious crimes’, and had escaped from detention.
The tweet comes after reports of an exchange of gunfire in Bula Hawa in Somalia, which borders Mandera town.
However, a reverse image search of the first photo that shows soldiers who appear to be in distress, first appeared online on January 27, 2016. It was taken in Eldoret, at a memorial service for Kenyan soldiers who died in an Al-Shabab attack in Somalia.
The image in the first photo was also credited to Tony Karumba and AFP by Getty Images.
Mr Karumba confirmed to Pesacheck that he took the photo in Eldoret town during the service for Kenyan soldiers slain in Somalia.
A search of the second image that shows dead bodies lying on the ground first appeared online on July 5 , 2017, published by Somali Radio Muqdishop. The story headline reads “Maleeshiyaad Shabaab ah oo duleedka Kismaayo lagu Xasuuqay Sawirro” which translates to “Al-Shabaab Militants Killed Outside of Kismayo”.
There is no information that could help debunk the third image which shows soldiers running. It is not clear if the soldiers are from KDF.
On March 2, Kenya’s National Police Service stated that the attacks were not in Mandera town, but in Bula Hawa, which is across the border in Somalia’s Gedo administrative region.
PesaCheck has also debunked claims arising from the incident at Bula Hawa.
PesaCheck has looked into the photos claiming to show Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) soldiers deployed to Mandera and finds two of them to be Misleading.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*7rTIUQ1ExDB0zAuK