URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-claiming-to-show-police-arresting-citizens-for-not-wearing-masks-is-actually-fe7ad07066e6
FALSE: This image claiming to show police arresting citizens for not wearing masks is actually from 2016 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-04-15T09:06:41.271Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post claiming to show an image of police arresting citizens for not wearing masks is FALSE.
The post, published on April 9 by one Kibet Jfk, claims to show the image of a policeman who has no mask arresting a citizen for not wearing the same. This comes after Health CS Mutahi Kagwe advised people to wear masks in public places, so as to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus.
The same image was also featured on the Ghetto Radio website, as part of an article about police arresting people without face masks.
However, a Google image reverse search shows that the image on the post was taken in 2016. The original photo was first published in July 2016 and was taken by Daily Nation journalist Tom Otieno. It shows a traffic police officer arresting a bodaboda rider along the Kisumu-Nairobi road.
The National Police Service (NPS) also debunked a tweet on April 9, 2020, where an image claimed to show police officers arresting citizens for not wearing masks.
This law was on a Kenya Gazette notice dated April 6, and was published in local newspapers on April 10. The new law indicates that every person in a public place must maintain the one meter distance requirement from another person and must wear a mask. Not adhering to these measures makes one liable for a fine not exceeding Ksh20,000 or imprisonment for a period not exceeding 6 months or both.
An official at the National Police Service told PesaCheck that the gazettement of this directive means that citizens who will be found in public without masks risk being arrested.
“From the moment the law was announced it began taking effect. People, therefore, should go out in public with masks as the law requires,” he said.
Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai on April 15 also said that officers will begin to take the next step of enforcing this law.
PesaCheck has looked into the claim that a Facebook post shows the image of a police officer arresting a citizen for not wearing a mask and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/1*AXFI13FmtxYBK9bAV1IkMg.png