URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-of-people-holding-brown-envelopes-was-taken-in-2015-not-2021-2de4dd470b72
FALSE: This image of people holding brown envelopes was taken in 2015, not 2021 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-01-22T06:57:18.324Z

Listen
Share
The photo was taken during a fundraising drive.
A Facebook post with a photo showing women wearing NTV branded T- shirts and holding khaki envelopes, with the claim that they are presenters who were bribed to announce fake results for the Ugandan general election is FALSE.
The post claims the NTV presenters were paid by Balaam Barugahara, an events promoter and strong supporter of President Yoweri Museveni, to announce fake results.
The outcome of the January 2021 presidential election has been disputed by the opposition after President Museveni was declared the winner.
Uganda’s Electoral Commission announced Mr Museveni garnered 58 percent of the vote, while his main competitor, Robert Kyagulanyi alias Bobi Wine, received 34 percent.
But Mr Barugahara has refuted the claim that he was in any way involved in such manipulation of the election results.
“Am I the electoral commission? Why would I bribe?” he told PesaCheck in an interview.
Additionally, President Museveni’s senior press secretary, Don Wanyama, refuted the allegation that local broadcaster, NTV, was paid to announce false results, terming the allegations false and baseless.
“Please disregard any unfounded claims. Of course that is fake news,” Mr Wanyama told PesaCheck.
One of the women seen in the photo, Faridah Nakazibwe (left), a news presenter at the station, has also flagged the post as fake.
Ms Nakazibwe reveals that the photo was taken in April 2015, during a fundraising drive for Rosemary Nankabirwa, a former NTV presenter.
The funds were intended to cover costs for cancer treatment for Ms Nankabirwa, who eventually succumbed to the disease.
PesaCheck has looked into a post showing Ugandan television presenters allegedly holding bribe money in brown envelopes with a claim that these NTV staff were paid to announce fake election results, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*mKjbrnhz1_HwggFm