URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-doesnt-show-uhuru-kenyatta-s-personal-belongings-being-moved-out-of-state-house-144284d7e812
FALSE: This image doesn’t show Uhuru Kenyatta’s personal belongings being moved out of State House | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-09-11T11:44:18.805Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with an image claiming to show movers moving President Uhuru Kenyatta’s personal belongings from State House, Nairobi, on 4 September 2022, is FALSE.
In the photo, a lorry belonging to a moving company is seen leaving the gate of State House, Nairobi, surrounded by uniformed security officers and other individuals.
The accompanying caption reads, “Uhuru Kenyatta in this picture is captured moving his things from State House…”
To verify the authenticity of the image, we did a Google keyword search (movers truck leaves statehouse) and established that the photo is not recent.
The search revealed that the photo is from 2013 when late President Mwai Kibaki was vacating the State House, to pave the way for then-incoming President Uhuru Kenyatta.
It was shared by renowned journalist John-Allan Namu on his verified Twitter page and captioned “As the moving truck leaves State house…#changeofguard.”
A reverse image search on Bing shows the picture was also published on the Nairobi Wire website on 9 April 2013 alongside an article titled “Pictures Of Trucks Moving Kibaki’s Things From Statehouse”.
President Kenyatta is serving the last days of his second term as Head of State and will be vacating office and his official residence once a new president is sworn-in.
Kenyans took to the polls on 9 August 2022 and elected William Ruto as the new president.
However, his election was challenged by his opponent Raila Odinga who filed a petition at the Supreme Court.
Kenya’s top court upheld Ruto’s election win on 5 September 2022 and he is set to be inaugurated on 13 September 2022.
PesaCheck has examined a Facebook post with an image claiming to show movers moving President Uhuru Kenyatta’s personal belongings from State House, Nairobi, on 3 September 2022, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*H-bBLCaDXEk7vEam