URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-raila-odinga-after-being-beaten-up-in-bungoma-and-forced-to-7d9928dd4747
FALSE: This image does not show Raila Odinga after ‘being beaten up in Bungoma and forced to denounce BBI’ | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-12-08T06:46:16.664Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with a photo claiming to show former Prime Minister Raila Odinga being roughed up in Bungoma in a bid to force him to denounce the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) is FALSE.
The photo shows what looks like Mr Odinga being led away by two men, with the post reading, “Raila beat to pulp n (sic) forced to denounce BBI nonsense in Bungoma. Pole babu (sorry granddad)”.
However, the post, which was shared on December 3, 2020, does not indicate when the alleged incident took place.
On the day the post in question was shared, Mr Odinga, who routinely updates the public about his political activities on social media, did not publish any information about the alleged tour to Bungoma.
Instead, he posted a photo of himself meeting with a member of parliament for Malava constituency, Malulu Injendi, and the governor of Kakamega County, Wycliffe Oparanya, at Orange House in Nairobi.
A Google reverse image search shows that several articles from April 2016, previously used the same image, including Business Today. The gist of all these articles is that the former PM was trying to get away from the cloud of teargas lobbed at him and his supporters by anti-riot police.
At the time the photo was taken, Mr Odinga represented the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (CORD) and participated in protests against the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC).
A further internet search brings up the same image published alongside an article by The Star, this time with a caption that shows the protest took place outside the IEBC offices at Anniversary Towers in Nairobi on April 25, 2016.
PesaCheck has looked into the Facebook post with an image claiming to show former Prime Minister Raila Odinga being roughed up in Bungoma in a bid to force him to denounce the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI), and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*-q-j1MFc4cBR6e0P