URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-students-demonstrating-along-the-kitale-webuye-highway-to-27731c6fed9b
FALSE: This image does not show students demonstrating along the Kitale — Webuye highway to protest the BBI | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-12-10T06:05:33.962Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image claiming to show students of Lugulu Girls school demonstrating to demand the stoppage of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) process, is FALSE.
The photo shows students in uniform holding twigs and marching against the traffic on the side of what could be a highway, their long queue disappearing in the horizon. One of the occupants of a passing car has their hands out of the window in what appears to be an attempt to photograph the demonstrators.
The post accompanying the image states that the students from Lugulu Girls took to the streets to demand that the BBI be stopped immediately.
Lugulu Girls High school is a secondary education institution in Webuye town of Bungoma county, in the western region of Kenya.
However, a Google reverse image search brings up the image in question contained in a Twitter thread by journalist Michael Murumba, who places the scene of the demonstration by the students as along the Webuye — Kitale highway.
But Mr Murumba in his tweet says the students protested after their school principal threatened students who witnessed a rape incident within the school. The thread also contains a video of the students airing their grievances to the Webuye OCS.
A further internet search brings up various news reports that corroborate the explanation by Mr Murumba’s Twitter thread. One of the articles, by Citizen TV states that the demonstration took place on December 8, 2020 and a clip by the same news organisation shows authorities committing to investigate the rape allegations.
Other news reports on the picketing students were also aired on NTV and the Standard Media’s news website. None of the clips shows any of the students talking about the BBI process.
PesaCheck has looked into the Facebook post with an image claiming to show students of Lugulu Girls demonstrating along Kitale-Webuye highway to demand stoppage of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) process, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*951zofLD8DPkoyo3