URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-the-picture-does-not-show-the-leader-of-tigray-peoples-liberation-front-being-arrested-a8891ed02467
FALSE: The picture does not show the leader of Tigray People’s Liberation Front being arrested | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-12-10T13:26:40.311Z

Listen
Share
A picture posted on Facebook claiming to show the Ethiopian Army’s Red Uniform Commando capturing a leader of the Tigray People Liberation Front (TPLF) is FALSE.
The picture shows a handcuffed man in green clothes being escorted by officers in army uniform and red berets. The claim written in Amharic says “It looks like TPLF leaders are being arrested in Mekelle City by special commando forces of the Ethiopian Army.”
Translation of the text reads “It just started! Breaking news, Victory news! Leaders of the Junta are being arrested by the red uniform commandos! To be continued…. Victory to our National Army! Victory to Ethiopia! Share it!”
The post continues: “Ethiopian Federal police commission just entered Mekelle. Ethiopian police special commandos and an investigating team just entered Mekelle on Dec1, 2020 in cooperation with Ethiopian National Defense Army and started to hunt the wanted criminals. The team of commandos is conducting searches and operations in the city and we will notify you of the next steps© Ethiopian Federal Democratic Republic, Federal Police commission.”
However, the story has nothing to do with the picture shared alongside it, nor is the picture from Ethiopia.
On November 12, 2020 Ethiopia’s parliament passed a resolution to strip some senior TPLF officials of parliamentary immunity from prosecution, including the region’s president Debretsion Gebremichael. The Tigrayan regional government is locked in a tussle with central government authorities over control of Ethiopia’s northern Tigray region.
Meanwhile, the Ethiopian National Defense Force (ENDF) recently announced they have seized Tigray’s capital, Mekelle, which shelters most senior officials of the party.
Among the officials listed as having lost immunity from prosecution is the Ex-Speaker of the House of Federation, Keria Ibrahim, who according to government sources, has surrendered. Ms Ibrahim resigned from her position in August 2020 after the disagreement between the federal and regional government escalated.
However, the picture in the post does not show the capture of a TPLF official. A reverse image search shows that the man being escorted by army officers is former head of Rwanda’s presidential guard, Tom Byabagamba. Mr Byabagamba was sentenced to three years in prison for theft, in addition to a 15-year jail term he is already serving for other crimes.
PesaCheck has looked into the claim that Ethiopian Army Red Uniform Commando captured the leaders of Tigray People Liberation Front (TPLF ), and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/1*zVJHsD1mMg_xpik05szxiQ.png