URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-10-babies-delivered-by-a-south-african-woman-c870acdf33e8
FALSE: This image does not show 10 babies delivered by a South African woman | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-06-21T10:06:05.921Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook claiming to show 10 babies delivered by a South African woman is FALSE.
The image shows the babies laying on a bed with a group of medical personnel standing behind them.
The post accompanying the image describes it as ‘shocking news’ that a South African woman delivered decuplets. It does, however, not indicate who the woman is, nor does it identify her by name.
The internet has been awash with a story of a South African woman who gave birth to decuplets in June 2021.
A BBC story dated June 10, 2021, reports the woman has been identified as Gosiame Sithole.
There are conflicting accounts on whether Ms Sithole gave birth to the 10 babies or not, as one official from the country confirmed this while another said they had not seen the decuplets.
Also, the Gauteng Government refuted claims there was such delivery of decuplets.
“None of the hospitals in the province, public and private, have any records of such a delivery in their facilities,” a statement from the provincial government reads.
A count of the babies in the image totals to 11 and not 10 as claimed by the post in question.
Also, a banner in the image reads, “21st Century Hospital & Test Tube Babies Center, Surat” which is located in the Indian state of Gujarat.
A reverse image search also brings up a number of fact checks, including one by Snopes which looked into a different version of the claim and concluded that the image in question is false.
A more specific reverse image search brings up the photo published in 2011 alongside others taken from different angles in a blog called Nadkarni IVF.
The blog post is titled 11.11.11 and a description states that the children were born to 11 different mothers who had conceived through IVF (In vitro fertilisation-Test Tube Baby Treatment), at the 21st Century Hospital & Test Tube Baby Centre, Station Road, Surat, Gujarat, India.
An article published by the Times of India at the time states that the IVF centre undertook operations on the mothers to schedule the births on the special date of November 11, 2011 (11.11.11).
In the article, one of the doctors, Pooja Nadkarni, is quoted as saying that the operation was meant to create awareness that infertility is not an incurable problem.
PesaCheck has looked into the image claiming to show 10 babies delivered by a South African woman and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*YHhZ5HMJ7fLB_uGD