URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-how-stressed-you-are-448b8d1ca968
FALSE: This image does not show how stressed you are | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-07-31T07:50:14.792Z

Listen
Share
An Instagram post claiming that an optical illusion that appears to move based on the movement of the eyes was created by a Japanese neurologist to indicate stress levels in an individual is FALSE.
The text on the image states that a calm person will see a still image, while slight movement means the person is stressed, and rapid movement indicates high levels of stress. The Japanese neurologist who allegedly designed it is not identified in the post.
The optical illusion is designed to appear to move with the movement of the eyes, and indeed appears to rotate on its own.
The image was created by Yurii Perepadia, a Ukrainian graphic designer and vector illustrator, and not a Japanese neurologist as claimed. The image also does not indicate stress levels.
Perepaedia shared this image on Instagram in 2018, explaining that he used the effects of Akiyoshi Kitaoka, a professor of psychology at Ritsumeikan University in Osaka, Japan. Prof Kitaoka’s main research subjects are visual illusions and he also designs illusions, many of which he has posted online.
The optical illusion was drawn using Adobe Illustrator — a vector graphics editing software — on September 26, 2016, and consists of white and black strokes on differently coloured backgrounds, which shifts the focus of vision and makes it appear as if the image is moving slightly.
In the Instagram post, Perepaedia states that the work is his, and does not belong to Yamamoto Hashima, who could be the Japanese psychologist in question. There is no record of a psychologist named Yamamoto Hashima anywhere, save for a number of posts referencing this image.
PesaCheck has looked into an optical illusion shared on Instagram with the claim that it can show an individual’s stress levels and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*1BuRvxqC7Xuz4GNL