URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-is-not-of-kenyas-health-cs-susan-nakhumicha-flagging-off-a-surgery-procedure-700bba8060b5
FALSE: This image is not of Kenya’s Health CS Susan Nakhumicha ‘flagging off a surgery’ procedure | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-12-14T14:12:29.702Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image purportedly of Kenya’s Health Cabinet Secretary (CS) Susan Nakhumicha “flagging off a surgery” procedure is FALSE.
The post reads: “The CS for health flagging off a surgery!”
A section of the people in the image, among them Nakhumicha, have no protective gear required in a theatre.
A Google reverse search indicates that the image is of a simulation exercise at the Kenya Medical Training College (KMTC).
On 17 November 2022, Nakhumicha, who was touring the facility, explained the context of the image in question and acknowledged the feedback it evoked, via her official Twitter account.
“This image from the KMTC SIMULATION LAB has elicited some debate,” the CS’s post reads in part.
The post adds: “The criticism my team and I have received is justified. Medical theatres are sterile environments and although this is a simulation lab, we should have been dressed in proper attire.”
The Health CS also explains: “The simulation lab uses dummies, not patients”, and congratulated KMTC for making their simulation lab appear “life-like”. “Visitors to this lab should be properly dressed to complete the picture,” Nakhumicha further says.
The KSh14 million simulation laboratory was launched on 28 July 2021 by KMTC in partnership with the Ministry of Health and Gradian Health Systems, to train health workers and help Kenya churn out critical care health workers needed in the fight against emerging diseases like the Covid-19 pandemic.
MoH and KMTC reported on Nakhumicha’s visit and the facility’s role in the achievement of the Government’s Universal Health Coverage.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with an image purportedly of Kenya’s Health Cabinet Secretary (CS) Susan Nakhumicha “flagging off a surgery” and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*yN70RrV5lKuWQOKc