URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-airstrikes-in-tigray-e970a411f218
FALSE: These images do not show airstrikes in Tigray | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-09-29T12:32:59.745Z

Listen
Share
These Facebook posts with images claiming to show an airstrike in Tigray are FALSE.
Part of the first post in Amharic accompanying an image of a drone translates as; “Current information. The heroic Federal Air Force has taken successful action against selected enemy military positions. Our air force has carried out deliberate drone strikes on six areas under the control of the enemy since around 6 o’clock in the night. The attack targeted weapon depots, forts and massed militants.”
The post adds: “The target air strikes were a complete success. It was taken in the areas Axum, Waja, Tumuga, Mekelle, Adigrat, Adwa and Korum. Complete extermination has been done on the Junta militants and leaders, especially those gathered in Adigrat. We have also come to know that the terrorist TPLF is letting militants get closer to Aksum overnight by decreasing them from different fronts.”
A similar post with the same photo was shared here.
However, results of a Google reverse image search established that the image is unrelated to the war in the Tigray region of Ethiopia.
The picture was shared on the Anadolu Agency website in 2021 to support an article with the headline, “Low-cost armed Turkish drones shaping future warfare: Report.”
The same image was published on this website.
The second post with a similar claim in Amharic translates as; “Breaking. Airforce. The Air Force carried out drone strikes at six locations around 6:00 p.m. The attack targeted weapon depots, forts and massed militants. The places where the action was taken are Axum, Waja, Tumuga, Mekelle, Adigrat, Adwa and Korum. The information we received indicates that the action taken against the militants and leaders of TPLF in Adigrat was 100% successful. In the meantime, TPLF is preparing for the final fight in Axum and letting militants get closer to the southern parts of the city overnight by decreasing them from different fronts.”
However, Google reverse image search results established that the image attached to the post does not show a drone attack in Tigray.
As seen here and here, the picture has previously been shared on different online platforms and has no relation to drone attacks in Tigray.
However, different reports such as this and this one indicate that there were drone attacks in Tigray after the war in the northern parts of Ethiopia resumed in August 2022.
PesaCheck has examined the Facebook posts with images claiming to show an airstrike in Tigray and finds them to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*Oimto0cdevPTtDYd