URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-turkish-president-erdogan-authorising-delivery-of-a-military-jet-to-59b400ade781
FALSE: These images do not show Turkish President Erdogan authorising delivery of a military jet to Ethiopia | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-08-31T18:10:56.810Z

Listen
Share
A post shared on Facebook claiming to show Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan authorising the delivery of a military jet to Ethiopia is FALSE.
“Turkish Prime Minister father Erdogan has sent a new unmanned military jet authorised by his signature to our prime minister,” the post reads in part. The post also claims that news agencies have reported the delivery without naming them.
Three images accompany the post. The first shows President Erdogan signing on what is identified as new Turkish drone technology, while a picture of another drone can be seen behind him.
The second image shows Erdogan speaking to people standing in front of him. The third image also shows Erdogan signing on what appears to be the wall of a drone with two men observing behind him.
However, PeasaCheck learnt that the post claiming to show images of Turkish President Erdogan authorising the delivery of crewless jets to Ethiopia is unfounded.
Reverse image results for the first image shows Erdogan attending the delivery ceremony for the Baykar Akinci combat drone in the northwestern Tekirdag province in August 2021. The image was featured in a story by Anadolu, a Turkish news agency.
Image search results for the second and third images also reveal that it was taken during the same event on 29 August 2021.
The first and the third images were also shared on the verified official Twitter account of the Turkish Presidency. The official tweet says the drone technology named Akıncı UCAV [Akıncı Unmanned Combat Aerial Vehicle) made Turkey one of the top 3 countries in the technology”.
Although the post claims news agencies have covered the story about authorisation for delivery of unmanned jets to Ethiopia, no media house has reported such a story.
The claim came after Ethiopia’s Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed led a delegation to Turkey on 18 August 2021 and met President Erdogan. During the visit, there were agreements signed, including one regarding military, and financial cooperation.
PesaCheck has investigated a Facebook post claiming to show an image of Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan authorising the delivery of a military jet to Ethiopia and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*x3w2IuBw9V7zNahP