URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-dont-show-ethiopian-air-force-attacking-an-al-shabaab-training-camp-3ec6d2bc29e
FALSE: These images don’t show Ethiopian Air Force attacking an Al Shabaab training camp | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-08-21T19:57:27.095Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with images claiming to show the Ethiopian Air Force attacking an Al Shabaab training camp in July 2022 is FALSE.
The post in Amharic translates as, “Breaking: This is a targeted attack by the Ethiopian Air Force on al-Shabaab training camp. Al-Shabaab militants were demolished. The camp and a fighting army of the terrorist group, located 45 kilometres north of the city called Bakol in Hudur district, is under the radar of the Ethiopian Air Force.”
“In the meantime, the Ethiopian Air Force’s bombs that descend from the sky to the ground have left them roasted as a butterfly. Ethiopia will win!” adds the text.
On 29 July 2022, Reuters reported that The Ethiopian News Agency and a regional commander had announced that “regional forces in southeast Ethiopia killed more than 150 Al Shabaab militiamen during fierce border clashes”.
However, reverse image search results here and here show that the photos are not related to the conflict between Ethiopia and Al Shabaab militia in July 2022.
The first image was posted on this news website on 30 March 2018, alongside an article titled; “The Libyan Air Force targets the locations of Chadian gangs in southern Libya.” The description indicates the image shows the Libyan Air Force.
The second image was published on the Middle East Eye news website on 12 October 2019 and shows an explosion over the Syrian town of Ras al-Ain as seen from the Turkish border town of Ceylanpinar, Sanliurfa province. The image is credited to Reuters.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with images claiming to show the Ethiopian Air Force attacking an Al Shabaab training camp and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*lv4gNWHplfFavX47