URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-dont-show-a-plane-in-emergency-landing-at-uhuru-park-nairobi-4d220d4a3b7
FALSE: These images don’t show a plane in emergency landing at Uhuru Park, Nairobi | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-09-11T10:58:45.232Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with images purportedly showing a plane that made an emergency landing at Uhuru Park, Nairobi, due to bad weather is FALSE.
“UPDATE: A plane makes an emergency landing at Uhuru Park, Nairobi due to an extremely bad weather. Thanks God[][][][][],” the post reads.
PesaCheck performed a Google reverse search on the two photos used to support the claim. The results expose a tweet dated 28 August 2022, with both pictures used in the claim.
The tweet reads: “An old Boeing 737 fuselage has been installed at Uhuru Park, Nairobi. Might be used as a restaurant or some sort of amusement facility.”
A search for the keywords “Plane at Uhuru Park” identifies an article by Citizen Digital dated 8 August 2022.
“New-Look Uhuru Park: Giant Airplane Parked On Grass Excites Kenyans,” the headline reads.
Another article by K24 Digital and dated 30 August 2022 features various photos of Uhuru Park, including the plane in question.
“PHOTOS: Uhuru Park features retired plane bearing uncanny resemblance to US presidential jet,” the headline reads.
The Nairobi Metropolitan Service (NMS) was allocated KSh1 billion for the upgrade of neighbouring Uhuru Park and Central Park in Nairobi. The renovations, which started in September 2021, are aimed at restoring green spaces in Nairobi County.
Lieutenant General Mohamed Badi, the NMS boss, confirmed in an interview on 4 August 2022, that a Boeing aircraft at the park was being converted into a restaurant.
“We have a Boeing which we are converting into a restaurant and it will be placed in Uhuru Park,” Badi explains from minute 39:37–39:47 of the interview.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with images purportedly showing a plane that made an emergency landing at Uhuru Park, Nairobi, due to bad weather and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*EeQCCZj0YLNrY510