URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-the-front-page-of-the-star-newspaper-on-18-september-94084d5b3fa9
FALSE: This image does not show the front page of The Star newspaper on 18 September | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-09-21T08:53:28.150Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post claiming to show an image of the front page of The Star newspaper’s September 18–20 weekend edition is FAKE.
The image, which has also been shared by the youth party leader of the Orange Democratic Movement’s (ODM), Benson Musungu, maintains The Star newspaper’s branding.
It shows a headline claiming that Deputy President William Ruto is involved in a ‘Kenya Meat Commission (KMC) tender scandal.’ This story claims to connect the DP to a scandal surrounding the supply of stolen cattle to the KMC.
The image elicited debate and confusion on Twitter, with one user asking whether the newspaper publishes different editions for different regions.
However, the main headline and image have been fabricated, although the other stories on the cover page remain the same.
The Star’s authentic front page for September 18–20 carries the headline “Kinoti and Wanjigi in fierce gun battle.”
The Star has since tweeted the image of the legitimate cover page, alongside the fabricated page.
In recent months, images of fabricated front pages targeting mainstream newspapers have been shared on social media platforms. In one case, both The Star and Daily Nation were affected on the same date.
The Standard also flagged a falsified front page which claimed the deputy president’s wife, Ms Rachel Ruto, had gone into hiding, while the Daily Nation dismissed as doctored a front-page alleging a ploy by Chief Justice David Maraga to dissolve parliament.
PesaCheck has also published an explainer article on how to recognize fake newspaper cover pages on social media. The fastest way to determine whether the image on the front page is authentic is to check the official social media accounts of the parent news organization.
PesaCheck has looked into a post with an image of the cover page of The Star newspaper dated September 18–20 weekend edition and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*B17b_zJGC-8S-Trm