URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-doesnt-show-afar-special-forces-backing-al-shabaab-in-somali-region-of-ethiopia-215b04993ed1
FALSE: This image doesn’t show Afar Special Forces backing Al-Shabaab in Somali region of Ethiopia | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-07-29T17:42:55.386Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image claiming to show Afar Special Forces backing the Al-Shabaab in the Somali region of Ethiopia is FALSE.
The post in Amharic shared on 26 July 2022 translates in part as; “Afar Special Forces and Afar people are supporting Al-Shabaab militants. While Somali Special Forces are fighting Al-Shabaab, Afar Special Forces invade the Somali region and fully support Al-Shabaab”.
The post adds: “Earlier today, Afar Special Forces along with Afar militia killed many Somalis in Hundfo.”
On 21 July 2022, Reuters reported that Al-Shabaab carried out a deadly attack on the Ethiopian border. Fighting continued on 25 July 2022 and Somali regional security forces claimed to have killed 85 Al-Shabaab militants.
However, the image we are examining does not show Afar Forces from Ethiopia supporting Al-Shabaab militants in the fighting.
Reverse image search results show armed forces in the Afar region in April 2022.
The image was shared on 13 April 2022 on Twitter with a text “#Erebit Front! The history being written again”.
The image was also shared here with a statement in Amharic that translates as; “ We have gained rights to self rule, learning by our language and promoting our culture through the bitter sacrifices paid by our fathers”.
Erebti is one of the districts in Ethiopia’s Afar regional state. It is named after River Erebti, which flows east from the Ethiopian highlands into the Afar Depression.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with an image claiming to show Afar forces supporting Al-Shabaab fighters in the Somali regional state of Ethiopia in July 2022 and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*zYUyB5D_BjVYwGVo