URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-sudanese-forces-that-captured-disputed-territory-on-the-ethiopian-602b960707ef
FALSE: This image does not show Sudanese forces that captured disputed territory on the Ethiopian border | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-12-31T12:53:56.235Z

Listen
Share
A picture embedded in a Facebook post claiming to show Sudanese soldiers who seized a disputed area of land along the Ethiopia-Sudan border is FALSE.
The post shows a group of men apparently wearing military uniform with guns strapped to their backs as one of them holds up striped cloth. Two men in the foreground are smiling with hands raised above their heads. The text suggests that they are celebrating that an Ethiopian dropped his towel as he fled the region in fear of the Sudanese forces. A truck painted in the tradition of army camouflage is in the background.
The border with Sudan is a very important element in the political history of Ethiopia, particularly since the 19th century. The Anglo-Ethiopian Border Treaty and the Ethiopia-Sudan border demarcation process charted by the British government destined the two countries in Eastern Africa to have a history checkered with intermittent conflicts.
While Ethiopia has been engaged in an internal conflict in the Tigray region in the north, it was reported on December 5, 2020 that Sudanese forces moved into a disputed farming area on the border which has been under the control of Ethiopian militia for over 25 years, prompting a retaliatory ambush by Ethiopian forces, leaving four dead and 20 wounded, according to a report by Al Jazeera.
Sudan’s Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok later visited Ethiopia briefly on December 13, 2020 and two days of conciliatory negotiations followed a week later to address the issue. However, the talk was inconclusive and although proposals have been made to continue the discussions, Sudan announced that its forces had captured the disputed land.
However, the image claiming to show Sudanese soldiers is not from recent events. A reverse image search shows that the picture was posted to Twitter on January 1, 2017 with a simple description that it showed Sudan armed forces on a Kia KM450 technical truck.
PesaCheck has looked into the picture claiming that it shows Sudanese soldiers who seized disputed land in Ethiopia’s border, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/1*rZSvl7UqjxV1GTljbi8mMA.png