URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-the-people-of-benishangul-gumuz-ethiopia-armed-to-fight-48704872198b
FALSE: This image does not show the people of Benishangul Gumuz, Ethiopia, armed to fight | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-04-19T10:44:36.940Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook claiming to show armed men from the Benishangul Gumuz region of Ethiopia vowing to fight “using big guns”, is FALSE.
The image is accompanied by a post, written in Afaan Oromo language, that translates: “The Gumuz people are disgusted at being killed on their own land and have vowed to fight using big guns”.
The photo shows armed men wearing civilian clothes in various poses, with some crouching while others stand in a crowd behind them. There is no reference to whom the villagers intend to fight in the post.
Benishangul Gumuz is one of the 10 regional states of Ethiopia and is located in the western part of the country where the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD) is under construction.
The Metekel zone in the region has seen continued insecurity since 2019, with a report by Amnesty International stating more than 100 people were killed by unidentified gunmen in December 2020. A few days later, Ethiopia’s military reportedly killed more than 40 people suspected of being associated with the massacre.
Subsequently, the Federal Government of Ethiopia declared a state of emergency in the Metekel zone on January 21, 2021.
Though continued instability has been reported in the Benishangul Gumuz region, PesaCheck has found that the post on Facebook claiming to show pictures of the people who have vowed to fight using big guns is unfounded.
Reverse image search results provide that the picture is associated with South Sudan rebel forces and was taken in 2014.
The picture ran in an article by the BBC titled, “South Sudan’s Kiir and Machar meet in Ethiopia,” and has been used in multiple news articles since 2014, including this report by The Economist.
PesaCheck has looked into an image shared on Facebook claiming to show armed people from the Benishangul Gumuz region who have vowed to fight using big guns and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*oEePha_HNVg3_d-v