URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-photo-does-not-show-an-electricity-transformer-erected-above-the-roof-of-a-house-in-fadaa41e44ce
FALSE: This photo does not show an electricity transformer erected above the roof of a house in Kenya | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-01-15T14:11:54.285Z

Listen
Share
An image posted on Facebook claiming to show an electricity transformer erected through the rooftop of a residential building in Kenya, is FALSE.
The post, captioned, “Excellent job Kenya power quacks in the name of engineers”, has been published on a Facebook group named ‘Kenya Power & Lighting Company (KPLC) staff’.
Comments on the post shows that Facebook users actually believe the house is in Kenya.
One user commented: “I saw this house in West Kenya,” with another specifically saying the house is in Mbale, Western Kenya.
However, the image has been shared in a misleading context.
A reverse image search, however, shows the photo was published in August 2020 on Reddit, with a claim that it was of a house in Nigeria.
A further search on Google using keywords shows that Nigeria uses rectangular poles for electricity connection.
The same photo was also used in an article on Kenyans.co.ke in September 2018, which quotes the Kenya Power company’s response to users’ comments on the image, which had been circulating on social media.
“Here in Kenya, we use circular poles and not box-like type as seen in the image. Safety for us is paramount,” the power distribution body stated.
Scrutiny by PesaCheck confirmed KPLC’s statement that the poles used to erect the transformer shows they are not from Kenya. Kenya Power uses round wooden or concrete poles and not rectangular ones, like the ones in the image.
PesaCheck has looked into the authenticity of an image claiming to show an overhead electricity transformer piercing through the rooftop of a residential house, and finds it to be FALSE.
By partnering with Facebook and similar social media platforms, third-party fact-checking organisations like PesaCheck are helping to sort fact from fiction. We do this by giving the public deeper insight and context to posts they see in their social media feeds.
Have you spotted what you think is fake news or false information on Facebook? Here’s how you can report. And, here’s more information on PesaCheck’s methodology for fact-checking questionable content.
This fact-check was written by PesaCheck fact-checker James Okong’o and edited by PesaCheck deputy editor Rose Lukalo. It was approved for publication by managing editor Enock Nyariki.
PesaCheck is East Africa’s first public finance fact-checking initiative. It was co-founded by Catherine Gicheru and Justin Arenstein, and is being incubated by the continent’s largest civic technology and data journalism accelerator: Code for Africa. It seeks to help the public separate fact from fiction in public pronouncements about the numbers that shape our world, with a special emphasis on pronouncements about public finances that shape government’s delivery of Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) public services, such as healthcare, rural development and access to water/sanitation. PesaCheck also tests the accuracy of media reportage. To find out more about the project, visit pesacheck.org.
PesaCheck is an initiative of Code for Africa, through its innovateAFRICA fund, with support from Deutsche Welle Akademie, in partnership with a coalition of local African media and other civic watchdog organisations.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*qj8mCV_J-PjAqI_N