URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-the-image-does-not-show-eritrean-troops-killing-civilians-in-tigray-f7544beb6cbc
FALSE: The image does not show Eritrean troops killing civilians in Tigray | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-12-31T08:27:35.372Z

Listen
Share
The image on a Facebook post claiming to show Eritrean soldiers killing civilians in Tigray is FALSE.
The text in the post, written in Tigrigna language, describes the indiscriminate killing of Tigrean civilians by Eritrean troops. It adds that Eritrean soldiers are committing crimes and behaving like animals in the Tigray region.
Since the conflict erupted in the Tigray region of Ethiopia in November 2020, different sources have alleged that Eritrean forces crossed the border and are helping the Ethiopian National Defence forces to quell the rebellion.
The United States Department spokesperson told Reuters “We are aware of credible reports of Eritrean military involvement in Tigray and view this as a grave development. We urge that any such troops be withdrawn immediately.” Both Eritrea and Ethiopia continue to deny such reports.
Ethiopia’s Minister of Defence Kenea Yadeta has specifically denied the involvement of Eritrean troops in government operations against Tigray People’s Liberation Front ( TPLF) in the Tigray region.
Eritrea’s foreign minister has also insisted that his government is not involved in the quagmire faced by its neighbour despite reports that forces in Tigray have bombed the Eritrean capital Asmara during the course of the conflict.
However, a reverse image search shows that the image carried in the tweet is not related to either the conflict in Tigray region of Ethiopia or to Eritrean troops. The image was posted on Twitter on November 30, 2017 by a user who claimed to be showing immigrants in Libya.
PesaCheck has looked into the claim that a picture showing Eritrean soldiers killing civilians in Tigray, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/1*0wCktFDHNBhlJt3wDp8FPQ.png