URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-a-malnourished-child-in-wollo-ethiopia-b54ba016b24
FALSE: This image does not show a malnourished child in Wollo, Ethiopia | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-09-28T10:30:08.852Z

Listen
Share
A tweet claiming to show a malnourished child in Wollo, the Amhara region of Ethiopia, is FALSE.
The image is accompanied by text that reads, “Wollo can’t wait”.
In addition, the tweet says, “#TigrayRebels displaced more than 1 million in Wollo, Amhara women and children are now stranded in the jungle and starving to death. Immediate humanitarian response needed to avoid famine”.
International humanitarian organisations such as UNICEF Ethiopia and USAID Ethiopia are tagged in the post.
However, Google reverse image search results show that the picture does not depict events related to the humanitarian crisis in Wollo. Instead, the image is of an internally displaced Somali woman with her malnourished child in Somalia’s capital Mogadishu.
The image was published on the India Today website on 19 May 2017, in an article titled, “With no food and water, 20 million people in African countries are at risk of famine”. Moreover, the image was taken by Feisal Omar, on 20 September 2011, details on the online photo repository Alamy website show.
The conflict that started in the Tigray region has spread to the Amhara and Afar regions. As a result, 4.5 million people from the Amhara and Afar regions have been affected and more than 500,000 have been displaced.
Based on this context, there was a Twitter campaign with hashtags like #AidForAmharaIDPs and #WolloCantWait. The image in question was used during this campaign. Although Wollo is in need of humanitarian assistance, the image used to advance the claim is unrelated to the situation in the region.
PesaCheck has looked into a Twitter image claiming to show a malnourished child in Wollo, in the Amhara region of Ethiopia, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*2HXa5ARqvEk6CQH9