URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-is-not-of-ethiopian-troops-captured-by-fano-in-amhara-region-in-may-2023-d39afc4ec398
FALSE: This image is not of Ethiopian troops captured by Fano in Amhara region in May 2023 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-06-15T12:03:45.227Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with an image purportedly of Ethiopian soldiers captured by Fano in North Shewa, Amhara region, in May 2023 is FALSE.
Fano is an armed youth group in the Amhara regional state.
The photo is accompanied by an Amharic text that translates to; “My Shewa, a country of Menelik, the force that entered to disarm the Shewa Fano is already captured. If it is in Pastor Abiy’s [PM Abiy Ahmed] will he can release his more than 25,000 captives including Zemen Kase, the Fanos, Special Forces, and the jailed journalists, other than that they will be shot and killed without any condition. These are not the only ones, North Walo and Gondar are included. The force that massacred women and children in Wellaga have now entered our region by wearing defence force uniforms [Ethiopian National Defence Force]. There is a difference between killing the innocent and confronting the hero in a real fight.”
In April 2023 Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed announced that regional defence forces would be integrated into the federal police force and the national army. The announcement led to protests across the northern Amhara region, with media reports indicating that several people were shot.
On 4 May 2023, the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission (EHRC) said there were civilian deaths and damage to property as federal troops clashed with regional forces.
However, Google reverse image search results established that the photo in the claim is unrelated to the conflict between Fano and the federal army.
Radio Halgan live TV shared the image alongside other pictures on its Facebook page on 6 December 2021. The accompanying text, in Somali, translates to: “The Tigre has revealed prisoners of war and military equipment captured in the Amhara region.”
The image was also published on another Facebook page on 4 December 2021 in a post about the Tigray Defence Forces capturing federal soldiers during the battle of Kasagita.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with an image supposedly of Ethiopian soldiers captured by North Shewa Fano in May 2023 and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*jBusROk2i8uUWit1