URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-dp-ruto-running-for-dear-life-in-trans-nzoia-on-february-27-524d0debb19d
FALSE: This image does not show DP Ruto “running for dear life” in Trans Nzoia on February 27 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-02-28T21:38:28.675Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image claiming to show Deputy President William Ruto, and his colleagues running for their lives in Trans Nzoia County is FALSE.
The post caption read, “DP and his colleagues ran for their dear life when the youths disrupted the noisy meeting in Trans Zoia (sic) today”.
In the image, the DP and others, including Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, and his Nairobi counterpart, Johnson Sakaja, are seen running, smiles on their faces, which seems unlikely for people “running for dear life”.
A Google reverse image search shows that the photo was first shared in 2015.
The image was used in an article by The Standard with the caption, “DP William Ruto runs to receive the winning team.” The photo is credited to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Twitter account.
The same image was also used in an article published by Citizen TV .
In September 2015, Kenyan athletes had a grand reception when they arrived at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) in Nairobi, from the IAAF World Athletics Championships that were held at the National Stadium Beijing, China from August 22 to 30, 2015. The deputy president and his colleagues were at hand to receive the team after the event.
When this claim was made, on February 27, the DP toured Trans Nzoia and Uasin Gishu counties. From the photos posted on his Twitter page, it is also evident the DP was dressed casually, in a black and grey checked shirt and orange trousers, as opposed to the grey suit he donned in the image with the claim.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with an image claiming to show Deputy President William Ruto, and his colleagues running for their lives in Trans Nzoia County and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*auFXx52pmBeE_9bb