URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-photo-does-not-show-the-ethiopian-military-erecting-a-bridge-over-tekeze-river-b9578383561e
FALSE: This photo does not show the Ethiopian military erecting a bridge over Tekeze River | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-07-28T14:22:27.713Z

Listen
Share
This image posted online claiming to show the Ethiopian military erecting a movable bridge system over the Tekeze River is FALSE.
The post, written in Amharic, identifies the system as “GQL-111- a military rapid bridge system which Ethiopia secured from China a year ago”.
“It is a movable bridge system which functions in any geographic condition,” the post reads.
The supposed temporary bridge, measuring 75 meters in length, the post says, can be installed within minutes.
The post further claims the Tekeze bridge was destroyed by the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), with the intention of smuggling firearms via airborne options under the pretext of humanitarian aid transportation.
“The Ethiopian Defence Force is moving this bridge system to the area with the aim of reducing air transportation and curbing the plot by TPLF and its collaborators,” the post adds.
The Tekeze River is located in the northern part of Ethiopia, separating Amhara and Tigray regional states, according to the federal structure.
In early July 2021, a bridge over the river, which serves as a major route to the conflict-torn Tigray region, was destroyed, complicating the delivery of humanitarian aid to the affected population.
It is not clear who destroyed the bridge, but a United Nations report indicates that Amhara forces were blocking aid to the Tigray region, an accusation that was denied by the government.
A report by the Ethiopian State of Emergency Fact Check says that the Ethiopian National Defence Force is set to mobilise a movable bridge over the Tekeze River, to improve mobility in the region. It was after the release of this report that the post claiming that the military is erecting the bridge was shared on Facebook.
However, PesaCheck has found that the picture used in the Facebook post is not related to the Ethiopian military erecting a military bridge system over the Tekeze River.
Google reverse image search results show that the picture has been used in multiple posts and articles that appeared years before the destruction of the Tekeze River.
The picture was posted one year ago on Reddit, a network of communities, with the heading, “GQL-111 Rapidly Emplaced Bridge System”. It appears that the Facebook post adapted the title that was used on Reddit.
The image was also featured in this article published in May 2017.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post claiming to show a picture of the Ethiopian military erecting a movable bridge system over the Tekeze River, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*o-W9KW6moP9qJj1_