URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-photo-does-not-show-raila-odinga-mingling-with-family-in-hospital-despite-testing-aaacdf81bb9a
FALSE: This photo does not show Raila Odinga ‘mingling’ with family in hospital despite testing positive for COVID-19 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-03-17T07:16:19.154Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with a photo claiming to show former Prime Minister Raila Odinga “mingling freely” with family and friends despite having tested positive for COVID-19 is FALSE.
The photo shows Mr Odinga lying on a hospital bed flanked by his wife Ida on the right, and family members on the left. Mr Odinga is wearing hospital garments with the logo of Nairobi Hospital printed on them.
The post accompanying the image casts aspersions on Mr Odinga, questioning why he was allowed to mingle with others when the virus is contagious.
The post questions whether the government is “using Mr Odinga to scare Kenyans into accepting the COVID-19 vaccines”.
“We all know Raila is Jubilee’s chief marketer! Was he paid for this?” reads the post in part. ‘Jubilee’ refers to Kenya’s ruling political party.
The World Health Organization (WHO) states that COVID-19 mainly spreads through respiratory droplets among people who are in close contact with each other. WHO recommends a two-week period of isolation for people with COVID-19 symptoms or who have tested positive for the virus.
On March 11, doctors at the Nairobi Hospital determined that Mr Odinga was COVID-19 positive following his admission at the hospital after feeling fatigued and complaining of aches and pains.
However, on March 14, he announced in a tweet that he was released from hospital and was observing strict isolation until further notice, contrary to the claim by the post in question.
A reverse image search of the photo brings up the image published alongside a number of articles. One of them is in the Daily Monitor dated June 29, 2010, and contains a similar image which appears to have been taken from a different angle on the same day. The caption states that the image was taken the previous day, while the article explains that Mr Odinga, who was then prime minister of Kenya, had undergone surgery after he hit his head in a car.
Another article by Reuters contains another image from the same day showing a close-up of Mr Odinga and his wife.
PesaCheck has looked into the photo claiming to show former Prime Minister Raila Odinga “mingling freely” with family and friends despite having tested positive for COVID-19, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*SXmfH7qlX6D4Mn_G