URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-is-not-a-photo-of-tanzanias-president-samia-suluhu-and-her-daughter-36668c4e78e3
FALSE: This is not a photo of Tanzania’s President Samia Suluhu and her daughter | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-03-26T16:03:51.639Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook claiming to show Tanzanian President Samia Suluhu Hassan and her daughter, is FALSE.
The photo shows two women embracing each other along a sidewalk. The lady on the left is wearing a dirac and has covered her head with a black hijab, while the lady on the right is wearing a fitting black jumpsuit.
“The daughter of the new president of Tanzania Samia Suluhu Hassan,” reads the post accompanying the image. The post does not, however, mention the name of the daughter.
Ms Samia Suluhu Hassan, who was sworn in as the 6th president of Tanzania on March 19, 2021, has four children. One of the most prominent of her children is her daughter Mwanu Hafidh Ameir, who is a special seat member of the House of Representatives of Zanzibar as well as the National Executive Committee of the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM).
The image was shared by a number of other Facebook users — here, here and here.
However, the women in the photograph are not the president and her daughter.
PesaCheck found the image published in an Instagram post by Trisha Khalid on March 16, 2021.
Ms Khalid is an actress who played Ruby in a Swahili telenovela, Kovu. She indicates in the Instagram post that she is photographed with Saada Fateh, whom she refers to as ‘mama’ (mother). Fateh plays the character Alisa in the same telenovela and is also a wedding emcee.
On February 16, 2021, Ms Khalid posted a photo taken from a different angle, this time clearly revealing their faces, which when compared to an image of President Suluhu reveals no resemblance as claimed.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with a photo claiming to show Tanzania’s President Samia Suluhu Hassan and her daughter and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*uIzGVUujPA_uBwOX