URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-of-barack-obama-doesnt-depict-him-shedding-tears-after-watching-jawar-mohammed-s-ce632ae5d37b
FALSE: This image of Barack Obama doesn’t depict him shedding tears after watching Jawar Mohammed’s interview | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-05-31T08:19:19.929Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image claiming to show former US President Barack Obama shedding tears after watching Jawar Mohammed’s interview is FALSE.
The post in Afaan Oromo shared on Facebook on 27 May 2022, reads “Obama after he watched the interview of Jawar.”
The post is accompanied with two images. The first shows Obama shedding tears, while the second shows Ethiopian politician Jawar Mohammed.
Ubuntu, a digital TV channel broadcasting from Addis Ababa, released an interview it conducted with Jawar via its YouTube channel on 26 May 2022. The interview, which was broadcast live, has been attracting the attention of social media users.
The post we are fact-checking refers to this interview.
However, the image of Obama attached to the post does not show the former US president shedding tears after watching Jawar’s interview as claimed.
Google reverse image search results reveal that the image depicts Obama tearing up while talking about his grandmother following her death in 2008.
The image was captured by AFP photographer Emmanuel Dunand on 3 November 2008 in Charlotte, North Carolina, US. It shows the then US Democratic presidential candidate, Senator Barack Obama, shedding tears while talking about his late grandmother, Madelyn Dunham, who raised him.
On the other hand, the results of the reverse image search for the image of Jawar attached to the post reveal it was captured from his interview with Ubuntu.
PesaCheck has investigated a Facebook post with an image claiming to show former US President, Barack Obama, shedding tears after watching Jawar Mohammed’s interview and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*2C42amwcKPbZg0S7