URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-injuries-sustained-by-kenyas-deputy-president-during-an-encounter-892fa01b96ee
FALSE: This image does not show injuries sustained by Kenya’s deputy president during an encounter with a crowd in Isiolo | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-02-28T14:05:44.294Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image claiming to show Deputy President William Ruto with injuries he sustained during his tour of Isiolo is FALSE.
The caption on the post reads, “William chased in isiolo like burkenge hadi longi ikapasuka viatu vikabaki. Nawaambianga huyu jamaa ako popular in Eldoret North pekee na hamskii.”
The image shows the deputy president in torn trousers and exposing a bloodied knee. He is without shoes and is wearing black socks on his feet. Dr Ruto is seen surrounded by a group of people, one of whom is holding his arm.
A reverse image search reveals it was first published on September 23, 2007, during campaigns for that year’s general election.
The image was published in a report by Africa Press, indicating the DP had been attacked by young people in the South Mugirango constituency the day before.
The photo has since been used on other websites recalling the same incident in 2007. The image was also used in an article by HiviSasa in 2018.
On February 13, 2021 while touring Isiolo County, Dr Ruto is reported to have encountered a hostile crowd of young people chanting slogans in favour of President Uhuru Kenyatta.
The clothes worn by the deputy president in the photo shared with the claim differ from what he is seen wearing during the 2021 visit to Isiolo.The image on the claim shows Ruto in a cream jacket, maroon checked shirt and brown trousers. But on his tour of Isiolo he was wearing a casual shirt, red trousers and a cap.
Previously, PesaCheck has debunked a claim using the same photo with an allegation that DP Ruto was attacked in Kisii on September 10, 2020.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with an image claiming to show Deputy President, William Ruto, injured during a tour of Isiolo and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*a7iO0g-avxPpHJHU