URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-the-aircraft-in-this-image-is-not-a-sudanese-helicopter-downed-on-its-way-to-ethiopias-16a94ac35c17
FALSE: The aircraft in this image is not a Sudanese helicopter downed on its way to Ethiopia’s Tigray region | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-08-26T10:45:54.569Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post claiming it shows a Sudanese helicopter that was downed on its way to the Tigray region of Ethiopia is FALSE.
The post, in Afaan Oromoo, claims that the Sudanese helicopter was on a covert trip to the war-torn region to support the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF).
“Breaking news: action was taken against a Sudanese helicopter which was heading to Tigray region secretly and was crushed to ash,” the post reads, in part.
“Anybody acting to support the Junta [TPLF] openly or secretly will be crushed. Victory to Ethiopia”, the post adds. The post does not mention who is supposed to have shot down the helicopter.
The war, north of Ethiopia, has escalated beyond its original confines in the Tigray region. In late June 2021, the Ethiopian government declared a ceasefire, but the truce soon collapsed, and war resumed.
On 8 August 2021, Khartoum recalled her ambassador to Addis Ababa after Ethiopia rejected Sudan’s mediation offer. Ethiopia reasoned that Sudan could not be a fair mediator due to existing border conflicts. The post was shared following mounting tension between the two countries.
Though the post claims to show a picture of a Sudanese helicopter downed while heading to the Tigray region in support of TPLF forces, PesaCheck has found that it is untrue.
Reverse image search results indicate that the picture is of a Nigerian air force helicopter that crashed at Katsina state in northern Nigeria in 2019.
The photo featured in a news article in an online magazine The Source, under the title “Air Force Chopper Crash-lands In Katsina”. The story explains that the helicopter crashed in the process of landing while returning from action against bandits.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post claiming to show a picture of a Sudanese helicopter downed while heading to Tigray in support of the TPLF forces and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*gB5ewNJkeNI6zvdQ