URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-image-in-this-post-is-not-of-eritrean-troops-withdrawing-from-tigray-ethiopia-in-november-5ff0d86cf0
FALSE: Image in this post is not of Eritrean troops withdrawing from Tigray, Ethiopia, in November 2022 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-12-12T11:43:37.790Z

Listen
Share
A post shared on Facebook claiming to show Eritrean troops withdrawing from Ethiopia’s Tigray region in November 2022 is FALSE.
The post was shared on 26 November 2022 with a headline in Amharic that reads: “The Eritrean forces are withdrawing from Tigray region Ethiopia”.
Part of the post reads: “Eye witness has confirmed that Eritrean forces are withdrawing from Tigray region based on the peace agreement reached between Ethiopian government and TPLF. The peace agreement signed in Pretoria, South Africa, stipulates that all foreign forces shall be removed from Ethiopia. According to eyewitnesses the Eritrean forces have moved from Adey-Aro to the disputed Sheraro direction.”
An image of armed soldiers in uniform at an unidentified road is attached to the post.
Eritrean soldiers have been fighting alongside Ethiopian government troops in their war against Tigray forces in the northern part of the country.
Following the Pretoria Agreement brokered by the African Union (AU) to end hostilities between the Ethiopian Government and Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), a declaration was signed on 12 November 2o22.
The Declaration was signed in Nairobi and provides for TPLF disarmament concurrently with the withdrawal of foreign forces and non-ENDF forces from Tigray region. The warring parties are to cease hostilities and work on ending the two-year old war without delay.
However, on 27 November 2022, a day after the image we are investigating was shared, TPLF spokesperson Getachew Reda tweeted that Eritrean forces were still in Tigray despite the Pretoria/Nairobi deal.
Nevertheless, the image we are looking into isn’t of Eritrean troops withdrawing from the Tigray region, as claimed by the post.
Yandex reverse image search results depict the image as that of Eritrean soldiers in 1999 in their country.
The image was taken by AFP photographer Steve Forrest on 22 September 1999 and shows Eritrean soldiers during a training at Tsorona during the Ethio-Eritrea war.
PesaCheck has investigated a Facebook post claiming to show Eritrean forces withdrawing from the Tigray region of Ethiopia in November 2022 and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*Z3xSDOVJWF72B5ni