URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-weapons-seized-during-a-home-inspection-in-dessie-ethiopia-63cb545b518
FALSE: This image does not show weapons seized during a home inspection in Dessie, Ethiopia | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-12-16T13:39:26.086Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook image claiming to show weapons that were seized during a home inspection in Dessie, Ethiopia is FALSE.
“A large number of weapons were seized during a home inspection in Dessie. It is known that there are more than ten thousand Tigrayan fighters in Dessie. And they have collaborated with the Tigrayan forces and shot the Wollo people, who grew up with them. Also, after the TPLF had taken full control of Dessie, they formed an alliance with TPLF. Then they have shown them every public and private property and directed them throughout the city,” part of the post in Amharic reads.
To support the claim, an image is part of the post. However, Google reverse image search results reveal that the image does not show weapons that were seized during a home inspection in Dessie.
The image was shared on the Amhara Media Corporation verified Facebook page on 29 November 2020. “In the Gambella region, security forces took action against smugglers while they tried to escape with illegal weapons. The commission’s commissioner, Commander Uman Ugala, said that the action was taken when the smuggler tried to smuggle weapons from the Nuer Zone to Itang Special Woreda. And a total of 28 Kalashnikov rifles were seized in an exchange of gunfire with security forces,” part of the report on the Amhara Media Corporation verified Facebook page said.
The weapons were captured in the Gambela region a year before the declaration of a nationwide state of emergency that allows security forces to conduct a house inspection of any person they are suspicious of.
In November 2021, it was reported that the Council of Ministers had proposed a six-month nationwide state of emergency to protect civilians from attacks being committed by the Tigray forces. The civil war in Ethiopia started a year ago and has intensified with the international community calling for a ceasefire.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook image claiming to show weapons that were seized during a home inspection in Dessie, Ethiopia and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*3rEGKaQY9pWYLue6