URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-victims-of-the-conflict-between-russia-and-ukraine-5ee7f138bd7e
FALSE: These images do not show victims of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-02-28T22:54:40.148Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post containing a number of images claiming to show victims of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine is FALSE.
The four images, which have been combined in a collage, show visibly distressed subjects in different circumstances.
“KUOMBEA RUSSIA NA UKRAINE…Tafadhali Usiruke hii. Sema neno moja tu naMungu atasikia hayo maombi. Mungu ibariki mikono INAYOSHIRIKI hili kwa groups, unapo #SHARE unaungana nami kuwahamasisha watu kuomba. Leo ni Ukraine na Russia kesho inaweza kuwa wewe… tunahitajiana. tafadhali naomba usipuuze… ,” reads the post written in Swahili.
This translates loosely to, “Praying For Russia and Ukraine. Please do not skip this post. Just say one word and God will hear your prayer. Bless Oh Lord those who share this post in various groups. Whenever you share this post, you join me in motivating others to pray. Today is Ukraine and Russia, but tomorrow it could be you. We need each other. I beseech you to please not ignore this”.
However, a reverse image search of the collage brings up an article containing two of the photos in the claim. The first is the photo of a man mourning over a seemingly lifeless body of another man, and the other shows a woman carrying a child. In both photos, debris from collapsed buildings can be seen in the background.
The article published by Georgian Journal is dated 8 August 2017, which predates the recent Russia-Ukraine conflict. The article itself is about the commemoration of the 2008 Russia-Georgia war and not the Russia-Ukraine war as claimed. The images are however not captioned.
A reverse image search of the photo of a woman seated amid the rubble with a raging fire behind her brings an article by Euronews. The article is also about the Russia-Georgia war and the image is part of footage by the publication.
According to the caption, the image was taken on 9 August 2009 and shows an injured woman in Gori, a city in eastern Georgia.
A reverse image search of the picture of an armed security officer next to a civilian on his knees shows the photo is available on the Alamy stock image website.
The image is credited to Reuters’ photographer Gleb Garanich and was taken on 14 August 2008 during the Russia-Georgia war. The caption indicates that the image shows Russian soldiers detaining a man who carried a weapon in his car at a checkpoint in the Georgian city of Gori.
PesaCheck has examined the Facebook post containing a number of images claiming to show victims of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*2BC5sbSW9TM65X1c