URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-drone-attacks-on-tigray-forces-9e653892709d
FALSE: These images do not show drone attacks on Tigray forces | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-08-31T13:49:35.508Z

Listen
Share
These images posted on Facebook claiming to show drone attacks on Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) forces by Ethiopian national forces are FALSE.
“Our heroic Air Force with the help of a drone search took action on TPLF militants while they were in a meeting at Setayesh and Mersa,” part of the post in Amharic reads.
“The junta militias are completely destroyed. In addition, those who were planning to control Werebabo, Kombolcha and Bati from the Afar side were destroyed by the combined forces of Afar and Werebabo heroes. And those who escaped from being captured were dispersed”.
“The junta suffered heavy losses. During the fighting, a large number of personal and group weapons were captured,” the post adds.
However, Google reverse image search results, as seen here and here, reveal that the images in the claim have been used on different online platforms since 2016.
The first image, for instance, was published on the Defence World website on 29 October 2016, in an article dubbed “Marines Working on Mega-Drone That Carries Same Weapons as As F-35.” It is also advertised on the Epay website for sale.
The second image appears on the thumbnail of a video on YouTube. However, the video does not mention anything about drone attacks.
The third image was published on the Khaama Press website on 21 December 2017, in this article, about India’s plan to buy Mi-35 gunships for the Afghan security forces. The same image was used in 2019 on another website with an article about Uzbekistan’s contract with Russia to purchase 10 Mi-35M helicopters and in this 2018 article on arms sales to Serbia.
The fourth image appears on the thumbnail of a video on YouTube but the video does not say anything about a drone attack on Tigray forces.
The fifth image was posted on Twitter on 28 August 2021, a day before the claim with Arabic captions. According to the Google translation, the image depicts Tigray Forces crossing a river.
The sixth image was posted on the FDRE Defence Force verified Facebook account on 28 August 2021, with a poem. The poem does not mention a drone attack.
The seventh image just shows a village and there are no signs of either destruction or a drone.
There are allegations of the use of drones by the Ethiopian Air Force during the war in the northern parts of Ethiopia. It is in this context that claims the use of drones to attack Tigray forces have emerged.
PesaCheck has looked into Facebook images claiming to show drone attacks on Tigray forces and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*zCTXqGoI995VtFcU