URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-kyiv-city-destroyed-by-russia-and-putin-commanding-the-war-from-the-43e1dfb5e488
FALSE: These images do not show Kyiv city destroyed by Russia and Putin commanding the war from the front | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-02-28T22:25:54.019Z

Listen
Share
Images shared on Facebook with a post claiming to show Kyiv city destroyed by Russia and Russian President Putin commanding the war from the front in February 2022 is FALSE.
“Kyiv, the capital city of Ukraine has been destroyed by modern missiles,” the post in Amharic shared on Facebook, on 27 February 2022, reads in part.
“Putin is commanding the war from the war front,” the post says, adding “there is no negotiation, the war has continued unfolding and America is adding fuel to the conflict”.
The post is accompanied with three images. The first shows President Putin outdoors in a mountainous area while the second and the third are images of buildings on fire.
On 24 February 2022, Putin declared an attack on Ukraine that he termed “special operations”. Russian forces have been fighting to control Kyiv, the capital city of Ukraine but Ukrainian troops, as of 28 February 2022, have fended them off.
Although the fighting has continued in the outskirts of Kyiv, the images claiming to show destruction of the capital city and Putin commanding the army in the war fronts are not true.
Reverse image search results on Google shows the first is a photo of Putin on holiday in 2018, and not commanding the war in February 2022 as claimed.
The image was captured by Alexei Nikolsky of TASS, a Russian news agency, via Getty images, on 31 August 2018. Putin was pictured while on vacation in the West Sayan Mountains in Tyva Republic, south Siberia in Russia.
Results for the reverse image search on the second and third pictures, on the other hand, reveal that they were taken during the Israel-Gaza conflict in the year 2021 and 2014 respectively.
The second image was captured by AFP photographer Mohmud Hamas on 15 May 2021 and was archived by Getty Images in a series of other photos from the same happenings.
It shows the Jala Tower, which was the highest building in Gaza and hosted international media outlets including Al-Jazeera television and the Associated Press news agency collapsing after being struck by Israel on 15 May 2021.
The third image is taken from video footage published by the Daily Mail showing an explosion in residential buildings in Gaza after an airstrike carried out by Israel in May 2014. The image is also shared here.
PesaCheck has investigated images shared on Facebook claiming to show Kyiv destroyed by Russia and Russian president Vladimir Putin at the war front and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*hof3Zo_VDfIXkPZC