URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-is-not-an-image-of-recce-squad-police-officers-at-william-rutos-official-karen-8bc3968f49d1
FALSE: This is not an image of Recce Squad police officers at William Ruto’s official Karen residence on 15 August 2022 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-08-24T09:58:07.661Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook claiming to show a group of paramilitary police officers at President-elect William Ruto’s official Karen residence on 15 August 2022 is FALSE.
The post claims that the elite unit officers — drawn from the Recce Company of the General Service Unit (GSU) — had been sent to Ruto’s official residence in Karen, ahead of the declaration of the president-elect by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC).
The Recce Squad is an elite paramilitary police unit mandated to, among others, guard the President of the Republic of Kenya.
“The elite Recce Squad/Presidential Escort is back in DP’s Karen Official Residence in their numbers…God’s timing is the[],” according to the caption of the post we are debunking.
Was the photo really taken at Ruto’s official Karen residence?
A reverse image search conducted on the photo showed it was not taken on 15 August 2022 and also not at the official residence of the Deputy President in Karen, Nairobi.
Further, the search indicated the photo is not recent and has been used by several publications when covering stories on the police, specifically GSU’s Recce squad.
Another search using the Yandex engine led us to a VOA article with a photo caption reading: “Kenyan paramilitary units take their positions during the Africa Union Peace and Security Council Summit on Terrorism, at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre, in Nairobi, Sept. 2, 2014”.
The photo was shared at 12:28 p.m. on 15 August when the IEBC had not yet announced who the president-elect was. The declaration came later that evening, meaning it is improbable the security detail would be deployed before the announcement that Ruto had won the election.
According to the Assumption of the Office of President Act 2012, the candidate declared winner of a presidential election by the IEBC becomes the president-elect.
With the declaration, the president-elect is entitled to “adequate security” together with his running mate, who subsequently becomes deputy president-elect.
PesaCheck has looked into a photo shared on Facebook claiming to show an elite police squad at President-elect William Ruto’s official Karen residence on 15 August 2022 and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*qJz0b49oyP_jrda4