URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-is-not-of-a-shakahola-starvation-victims-body-in-kenya-marked-for-autopsy-497d0a19f7c1
FALSE: This image is not of a Shakahola starvation victim’s body in Kenya marked for autopsy | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-06-22T08:16:17.891Z

Listen
Share
This image on Facebook supposedly of “one of the Shakahola bodies marked for autopsy” in Kenya is FALSE.
The Shakahola deaths in Kenya’s coastal county of Kilifi are blamed on evangelist Paul Mackenzie who is said to have encouraged followers to starve to death and thereafter meet Jesus. The Kenyan government has since arrested the Good News International pastor and others involved in the church, including his wife.
The claim image is of the remains of a body with markings on the upper arm.
As of 16 June 2023, two days before the image was shared, the media reported that the Shakahola cult death toll had risen to 336, with 95 people rescued and 36 arrested in connection with the deaths. The new development came after the third phase of exhumation was suspended so that more bodies could undergo post-mortem examinations.
The Shakahola deaths hit international headlines after the discovery of shallow graves and starving people suspected to belong to the cult.
These events gave rise to misinformation, which PesaCheck debunked, as seen here, here and here.
But is the claim image related to the Shakahola deaths? We checked.
A Google reverse image search brings up the image, featured on different platforms and identified as the mummified body of a Princess Ukok, whose tattoos had been preserved for 2,500 years. Researchers discovered the princess’ remains in 1993 in Siberia and consequently branded her the ‘Siberian Ice Maiden.’
Similarly, a search on Yandex brings up the same photo, as seen here and here.
Further, a TineEye search confirms that the image is indeed of the Siberian Ice Maiden.
The Siberian Ice Maiden, according to the BBC, is believed to be “one of the most significant archaeological finds of the 20th Century”.
PesaCheck has looked into an image on Facebook purportedly of one of the Shakahola bodies marked for autopsy and found it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*ZxsUSqgkl296nkJY