URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-the-images-do-not-show-the-sudanese-defence-forces-invading-the-land-of-metema-32f117581a07
FALSE: ​​The images do not show the Sudanese Defence Forces invading the land of Metema | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-06-30T18:06:05.243Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with images claiming to show the Sudanese Defence Forces invading the land of Metema, Ethiopia, is FALSE.
The two images have a text that reads; “ Breaking News: Sudanese defense force is on the verge of invading the whole land of Metema. Amhara Special Forces, Fano, and Militia are now leaving the area and fleeing to Metema town.”
Metema is a town in northwestern Ethiopia, on the border with Sudan.
There are news reports of Sudan accusing Ethiopia’s army of capturing and executing seven Sudanese soldiers and a civilian, which the Ethiopian government has termed “regretful”.
Al Jazeera reported: “Sudan’s armed forces fired heavy artillery during clashes in the disputed eastern region of al-Fashaqa bordering Ethiopia.”
However, reverse image search results here and here show that the photos have been used online in contexts unrelated to the Sudan-Ethiopia conflict.
The first image was published on inf.news website on 30 June 2022, in an article titled, “Unveiling the mystery of China’s Q9 attack aircraft”. The same image was published on this website on 21 June 2021.
The second image is captioned, “Smoke rises after the Sudanese air force fired a missile during an air strike in Rubkona near Bentiu April 23, 2012. Sudanese warplanes carried out air strikes on South Sudan, killing three people near the southern oil town of Bentiu, residents and military officials said, three days after South Sudan pulled out of a disputed oil field.” The image is credited to Reuters photographer, Goran Tomasevic.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with an image claiming to show the Sudanese Defence Forces invading the land of Metema, Ethiopia, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*aUUe-3dobtIYkz_S