URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-arent-images-of-the-ethiopian-military-destroying-an-operation-led-by-a-sudanese-344045447781
FALSE: These aren’t images of the Ethiopian Military destroying an operation led by a Sudanese general | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-09-29T13:18:53.557Z

Listen
Share
A post shared on Facebook claiming to show images of the Ethiopian National Defense Force destroying an operation led by a Sudanese general in Ethiopia is FALSE.
The post shared in Amharic on 19 September 2022 translates as; “Victory News: A terrorist group which was led by Sudanese army General in two fronts (Metemma and Humera) that was firing heavy weapons in an attempt to open up a corridor was irreversibly destroyed by collaboration of our brave Ethiopian Defense Army and allied military forces. The group has gone back leaving its weapons and wounded members behind.”
The post is accompanied by three images showing military tanks and soldiers.
The images were also shared here and here.
Metema and Humera are border towns in Ethiopia along the border with Sudan.
According to ReliefWeb, people fleeing Ethiopia have been entering Sudan following the resumption of the war between the Ethiopian government and Tigray forces on 24 August 2022. Sudan and Ethiopia have been in conflict over a disputed border region.
However, the images we are investigating are not related to the Ethiopian National Defense Force destroying an operation led by a Sudanese general as claimed.
The first and the third images attached to the post are the same. Reverse image search results show that the image is of Thailand’s military exercise and not of either the Ethiopian or Sudanese military.
The image is credited to Sergeant Artur Shvartsberg of the US Marine Corps. The image shows Royal Thai M60A1 battle tanks during a joint military exercise at Training Center Ban Chan Krem, Thailand, on 21 February 2014.
Reverse image search results established that the second image is of a Tigray Defense Forces (TDF) operation during the war in northern Ethiopia in July 2021.
The image was featured on different websites as seen here and here, alongside articles that describe a purported TDF advancement towards Addis Ababa in July 2021.
PesaCheck has investigated a post shared on Facebook claiming to show the Ethiopian National Defense Force destroying an operation led by a Sudanese general and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*qGWPV4o6yzW36i4L