URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-doesnt-show-soldiers-captured-after-the-war-in-ethiopia-resumed-in-august-2022-843566b77708
FALSE: This image doesn’t show soldiers captured after the war in Ethiopia resumed in August 2022 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-09-29T07:16:11.217Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with an image claiming to show Amhara and Eritrean soldiers captured after the war in the northern parts of Ethiopia resumed in August 2022 is FALSE.
The post in Amharic translates as; “The Amhara soldiers whom the Eritrean soldiers drove from the Dedebit side of West Tigray turned out to be more than the population of the city of Shire as they thought, and crowded the city as captives. These captives were heard thanking their Creator repeatedly because they saw their luck in action, not on Facebook. The Shire town is under the control of the Amhara and Eritrean captives.”
To advance the claim, an image is attached to the post showing people in military uniform resting in an open field. However, Google reverse image search results established that the photo is old.
The war in northern Ethiopia resumed on 24 August 2022. Each side blames the other for breaking the agreed cessation of hostilities implemented in March 2022. Also, as seen here and here, both parties claim that they have surrendered the other party’s fighters. The claim we are fact-checking was made in this context.
The image under investigation is, however, not related to the latest hostilities. It was shared on this Facebook page on 16 October 2021, along with another picture. Similarly, as seen here, the image was posted on Facebook by another social media user on the same date.
PesaCheck has examined the Facebook post with an image claiming to show Amhara and Eritrean soldiers captured after the resumption of war in the northern parts of Ethiopia in August 2022 and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*obVH_GwUqE9hkevj