URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-a-kenyan-governor-launching-a-cow-worth-ksh-1-million-cabd3e126289
FALSE: This image does not show a Kenyan governor launching a cow worth KSh 1 million | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-05-07T13:59:02.262Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post that claims to show Migori Governor Okoth Obado launching a cow worth KSh 1 million is FALSE.
The post is accompanied by a picture of the Migori County boss waving the Kenyan flag next to a cow in an open field as a crowd looks on. The caption reads, “Kenyan Governor launching a cow worth 1Million”.
A similar post was shared on Twitter on April 27, 2021, with the caption “Kenyan Governor launching a cow”.
However, responding to PesaCheck’s query, Governor Obado dismissed the claim and said it was false information aimed at tarnishing his image.
“I launched 200 animals, 150 dairy cows and 49 Sahiwal bulls. The occasion was at Oyani Farm Institute in Migori County back in August 2016. This was captured purely for mischief. You can’t buy a cow for Ksh1 million. This is false information being used to tarnish my image,” the governor said.
The Migori governor added that the launch of the KSh 20 million project was held in an open field to avoid disease transmission after it was found that two of the cows were sick and being kept in isolation. The project is intended to reduce milk shortages in the county.
A Google search reveals that The Star newspaper, a Kenyan publication, featured the image in an article titled: “Governor Obado flags off dairy cows, Sahiwal bulls for Migori”. The caption accompanying the image reads, “Migori Governor Okoth Obado tries to flag off a dairy cow at Oyani Farm Uriri sub county during the launch of the second phase of a milk project, August 2, 2016”. The photo is credited to Manuel Odeny.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post claiming that Migori Governor Okoth Obado launched a cow worth KSh 1 million and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*suwYwPf_l_p4BaRS