URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-senator-irungu-kangata-running-away-from-dangerous-situation-60491e7425c1
FALSE: This image does not show Senator Irungu Kang’ata running away from dangerous situation | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-03-05T12:01:27.121Z

Listen
Share
An image showing the Senator for Muranga County, Irungu Kang’ata, running, with the claim that he was photographed fleeing a dangerous situation, is FALSE.
The image, shared on Facebook, shows Mr Kang’ata, in a blue suit and tie, running past a building along a dusty street with cars in the background of the photo.
The post says that the Senator was “running for his dear life”, suggesting that he was being chased, although the image does not show anyone in pursuit.
The post further adds, “reggae is unstoppable”. The term reggae has been used in Kenya by former Prime Minister, Raila Odinga, and other politicians to refer colloquially to the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) and the push for a referendum to amend the constitution.
Senator Kang’ata was removed from his position as the Senate Majority Whip after falling out with the ruling Jubilee leadership over the BBI. A letter dated December 30, 2020 from Mr Kang’ata to President Uhuru Kenyatta, discrediting the BBI process was leaked to the public, prompting the party administration to replace him with his Kiambu county counterpart, Kimani Wamatangi.
Mr Kang’ata’s removal came just months after his appointment to the position following the removal of his predecessor and Nakuru Senator, Susan Kihika.
Since his fallout with the ruling party Senator Kang’ata has called for a non-contested referendum, a position also held by Deputy President, William Ruto.
On the day the image in the post was taken, Mr Kang’ta was hosting the DP in Gatanga Constituency along with the members of parliament for Kiharu and Kandara, Ndindi Nyoro and Alice Wahome respectively.
The image appears to have been taken from a viral video of the event that has been published by a number of media organisations including Kenyans.co.ke. The description of the video states that the Senator arrived at the function late.
A closer look at the video does not show the Senator running away from anything or anyone chasing after him as the post appears to suggest.
Another image from the same event credited to Nation Africa photographer, Joseph Kanyi, and published alongside an article by Nairobi News, has a caption describing the Senator’s decision to run 300 meters to the church where the DP and other leaders were.
However, in a Facebook post, the Senator claims that the article by Nairobi News mischaracterises the chronology of events.
“Please ignore the propaganda. I came to DP’s function very late. Found the entrance blocked by vehicles. I alighted and ran past the blocking vehicles towards the church as the speeches were almost done,” reads the post.
PesaCheck has looked into the photo claiming to show the Senator of Muranga County, Irungu Kang’ata, running away from a dangerous situation, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*qXsUSsIEZZ5G1BQY