URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-claiming-to-show-american-forces-arriving-in-uganda-are-misleading-b2101198a439
FALSE: These images claiming to show American forces arriving in Uganda are misleading | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-02-21T13:03:00.871Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with a claim that American troops have arrived in Uganda is FALSE.
The post has multiple images showing aircraft carriers, military personnel, fighter jets and artillery and a claim in Luganda, a local dialect, saying that American forces have finally arrived in Uganda.
The post has over 600 reactions, 80 comments and has been shared over 300 times on Facebook.
However, a search shows that the photo of an aircraft carrier first began circulating online in 2014. The image is from the United Kingdom as seen here and here and shows that the aircraft carrier is operated by the Royal Navy.
A Google reverse image search for the second photo shows the Boeing AH-64 Apache, an American twin-turboshaft attack helicopter. The image appears on two stock image websites here and here and dates back to 2013.
A search using the Yandex Images tool shows that the third image was taken in Toulon, France and was published by the Mer et Marine. The image shows two helicopters; an Apache and a Sea King on HMS Ocean, a British aircraft carrier and was first shared in 2015 by the Royal Navy.
A Google reverse image search for the fourth photo shows it is not of recent events as claimed in the post, having first circulated online in 2016 as seen in this post, and is not related to Uganda. The image was also featured in an article by The Chive in 2018.
The fifth image is from Camp Lemonnier, Djibouti and a Google reverse image search finds that it was taken as US troops prepared to depart for Libreville, Gabon. It was taken on January 2, 2019 by US Air Force Staff, Amy Picard and was published by the US Army and Clarksville in the same year.
The claim in the post comes after the US Navy expeditionary sea base USS Hershel “Woody” Williams arrived at the Mombasa Port as part of its 2021 African Coast deployment. America has deployed the first naval ship to Eastern Africa in over a decade to boost maritime security and allow freedom of navigation in the region.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with photos claiming to show American forces arriving in Uganda and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*jwZh_mcdqv4k0dRu