URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-are-not-of-fulani-kidnappers-captured-with-arms-by-the-biafran-vigilante-6a487bb9e1dd
FALSE: These images are not of Fulani kidnappers captured with arms by the Biafran Vigilante Drillers in Nigeria | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-12-12T06:30:53.840Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with images purportedly showing two armed Fulani kidnappers captured by the Biafran Vigilante Drillers (BVD) in Nigeria, is FALSE.
The post reads in part: “Two Fulani Terrorists Kidnappers Trying To Smuggle Ammunitions Into Enugwu State For Possible Kidnappings And Killing Of Biafrans Has Been Captured By BVD Men On Ground Tonight 21st November 2022.”
The post adds: “According To Ekwensu Igbo Gburugburu Nkembu AKA “Break All Political Laws” Disclosed That The Two Terrorists By The Name Abdul Khadim And Isaah Aboubacar Were Apprehended Tonight By BVD Men On Patrol.”
BVD is a militant group in south-east Nigeria, a region comprising five states; Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Imo and Enugu. Several captures have been attributed to the group, but the images used in the claim have no relationship with the region.
A reverse search for the first image on Yandex indicates it involves a criminal gang in Kenya.
The image was featured in an article dated 27 August 2021 by The Star, with the headline, “Two injured in Likoni panga gang attack”.
The article identified Alex Kawere and Nyundo Mandale as the two men attacked by the panga-wielding gang at Kona ya Zamani in Likoni.
A reverse search of the second image shows it was shared alongside other photos on 30 March 2021 by a Twitter account by the name Crime & Terrorism Watch Kenya.
“Kenyans, 3 Al Shabaab terrorists have been arrested in Garissa County. With upcoming anniversary of Garissa University siege, a possible terror plot has been thwarted. Hongera to our security officers who ALWAYS sacrifice much to keep us safe. Tukae chonjo #Tunukiwa444,” the tweet reads.
An article by K24 reports that the three people of Somali origin were arrested in Lagdera, Garissa County, in possession of an assortment of illegal weapons and ammunition, among them nine AK-47 rifles, 2,104 bullets and 20 litres of petrol.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with images purportedly of two Fulani kidnappers captured with arms by the Biafran Vigilante Drillers (BVD) in Nigeria, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*0OCZbN9xgUZH4xJQ