URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-does-not-show-egyptian-soldiers-conducting-military-exercises-to-launch-an-attack-cb1c3503d41a
FALSE: This image does not show Egyptian soldiers conducting military exercises to launch an attack | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-02-24T19:15:53.327Z

Listen
Share
An image shared on Facebook claiming to show Egyptian soldiers in Sudan preparing to launch an attack against Ethiopia is FALSE.
The post in Afaan Oromo, was shared on Facebook on 20 February 2022 and reads in part, “The Egyptian army in Sudan is conducting strong exercises to launch an attack”.
“On the other hand, reports from Egypt reveal that the Egyptian military is assessing the situation in the Nile River,” the post adds.
The post is accompanied by an image showing two men shaking hands while other military personnel stand around them.
On 20 February 2022, Ethiopia started generating electric power from the Great Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD), despite the unsettled dispute with Egypt and Sudan over the operation and management of the mega dam.
On the same date, it was reported that the Egyptian government supplied medical aid to Sudan in a show of solidarity between the two nations. The aid was transported using four military planes.
The image we are looking into was shared on Facebook following the news about the Egyptian government supplying a large amount of medical aid to Sudan.
However, the image does not show the Egyptian army in Sudan preparing to launch an attack as claimed.
Google reverse image search results reveal that the picture was taken as an Egyptian team delivered medical shipments to the Sudan government, under the directives of President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi.
The image was captured on 20 February 2022 during the delivery of aid supplies by the Egyptian team. It was used in multiple news articles as shown here and here.
Although the post also claims the Egyptian military was assessing the situation in the Nile River, PesaCheck could find no report containing that information.
PesaCheck has investigated an image shared on Facebook claiming to show the Egyptian army in Sudan conducting military exercises to launch an attack against Ethiopia and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*FMm7Vovmp9ZZnE3p