URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-on-facebook-do-not-show-ugandan-forces-conducting-training-drills-b291dc4e748e
FALSE: These images on Facebook do not show Ugandan forces conducting training drills | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-03-12T13:14:21.560Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post claiming to show images of the Uganda People’s Defence Forces (UPDF) conducting military drills is FALSE.
The post with four images showing military artillery and soldiers involved in training drills is accompanied by a caption that reads “Just IN: We got information that UPDF is having a serious deadly training these days. They are ready to face any enemy of the state”.
However, a Google reverse image search on the first photo shows that it is of an Australian Army MRH 90 Taipan multi-role helicopter. Images of the helicopter have been published on the Australian Army website. Additionally, a video of the Australian Defence Forces using the helicopter was posted on YouTube on June 18, 2019.
A Yandex reverse image search on the second image links the photo to Ukraine. Furthermore, the uniform in the photo is not similar to the official uniform of the Uganda People’s Defence Forces as seen in the article here.
A Google reverse image search on the third image reveals that the military personnel in the photo belong to the Indian Army. The image has been published on Quora showing the Para Special Forces, a unit under the Indian Army.
A Google reverse image search on the last image shows it is a picture of the Pakistan Army. The image, which has been published on Facebook, shows that the military personnel in the photo don’t belong to the UPDF. The image has also been published on Pinterest, here with reference to Pakistan and not the Ugandan forces.
The Uganda People’s Defence Forces spokesperson, Brigadier General Flavia Byekwaswo, told PesaCheck that the photos are not of UPDF as claimed.
“These are not Ugandan forces,” she noted.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post claiming to show images of the Uganda People’s Defence Forces (UPDF) conducting training drills and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*NQHHZBDl-zLcwFaS