URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-argentinian-and-nigerian-soldiers-who-are-fighting-alongside-tplf-ddfac425efcc
FALSE: These images do not show Argentinian and Nigerian soldiers who are fighting alongside TPLF | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-11-16T09:18:40.040Z

Listen
Share
Facebook images claiming to show Argentinian and Nigerian soldiers fighting along with Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) on the Wello front are FALSE.
“Breaking news. Thousands of Argentinian and Nigerian soldiers who were fighting along with TPLF on the Wollo front were surrendered by our heroic defence forces. It is been said that 2,500 Argentinian have joined the junta at Woldia and among them, there are tank commandos and cannons, while the 850 captured Nigerian soldiers were fought to break through a tunnel at the Wegeltena front,” parts of the text with the images in the Amharic states.
“The defence force security chief, General Ayeshshum Bogale, said that the junta, who is determined to destroy Ethiopia, put the Argentinian under the influence of drugs and some of the captured Nigerian soldiers were also practising witchcraft on our defence forces. It is remembered that Prime minister, doctor, Engineer Abiy recently revealed that non-Ethiopian white and black people have participated at the Wello front,” the post added.
The post used two images to support the claim. However, as seen here and here, Google reverse image search results reveal that the images are not related to the Ethiopian conflict.
The first image shows Argentinian prisoners of war who participated in the Falklands War in 1982. The photo was published on the History is Now Magazine and Smithsonian Magazine website on 15 January 2019 and 23 November 2020, respectively, as seen here and here.
The second image shows Nigerian prisoners who were suspected of having an affiliation with Boko Haram. The Deutsche Welle website used the image on 18 February 2018 in an article, “Nigeria frees 475 Boko Haram suspects for lack of evidence.”
Prime minister Abiy Ahmed claims that non-Ethiopians were fighting the Federal government along with the Tigray forces at the Wello front.
PesaCheck has looked into the Facebook images claiming to show Argentinian and Nigerian soldiers who are fighting along with TPLF on the Wello front and find them to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*PZoHbQRnl6TYMYZA