URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-is-not-an-image-of-ugandan-government-critic-fred-lumbuye-after-deportation-4f51fa1d340
FALSE: This is not an image of Ugandan government critic Fred Lumbuye after deportation | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-08-22T09:56:40.110Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with an image purporting to show Fred Lumbuye, a Ugandan government critic, after his deportation is FALSE.
The image shows a handcuffed man being escorted by an armed police officer. The caption on the photo reads “Lumbuye deported to Uganda”.
Additionally, the post has the hashtag #FreeKajjubiFredLumbuye, which has been widely shared on social media calling for the release of the government critic.
However, a Google reverse image search reveals that the man pictured is not Lumbuye as the post claims. The image, which bears the logo of NTV Uganda, was captured from a news broadcast that aired on 6 August 2021, a day before the post was shared on Facebook.
According to NTV Uganda, Aviation Police in Entebbe arrested a 29-year-old man identified as Peter Ssempebwa, over alleged forgery of Interpol and COVID-19 vaccination certificates that he had sold to travellers at the airport.
The Daily Monitor reports that deputy Kampala Metropolitan Police spokesperson, Luke Owoyesigire, said the suspect was arrested after a group of nine migrant workers were arrested at the airport on 16 April 2021 with the fake documents.
On 9 August 2021, the Uganda Police confirmed that Lumbuye is not yet in their custody but 15 case files are awaiting him.
The blogger and Ugandan government critic was arrested in Turkey following multiple allegations of being the mastermind behind the rumours that President Yoweri Museveni and the Kabaka of Buganda, Ronald Mutebi, had died after contracting COVID-19.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with an image claiming to be of Ugandan government critic, Fred Lumbuye, following his deportation and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*qC-HsMiea__sTPIS