URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-dont-show-a-us-aircraft-carrier-deployed-in-the-korean-peninsula-d2253f91c3fd
FALSE: These images don’t show a US aircraft carrier deployed in the Korean peninsula | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-04-22T15:19:23.754Z

Listen
Share
A post shared on Facebook claiming to show a United States of America (US) aircraft carrier deployed in the Korean peninsula is FALSE.
The post’s headline talks of “the tension between global powers [that] has continued”.
“America has deployed an aircraft carrier amidst the growing tension with North Korea,” the post reads in part.
“North Korea has been opposing America’s military training in the Korean peninsula,” the post says, adding, “America has deployed an aircraft carrier in the Korean peninsula following the recent North Korean missile tests”.
The post names the deployed US aircraft carrier as “Abraham Lincoln” and two pictures are attached. The first shows a weapon, and the second shows US President Joe Biden and North Korean supreme leader Kim Jong-un.
On 12 April 2022, Reuters reported that a US aircraft carrier named “USS Abraham Lincoln strike group” was deployed in the Korean peninsula as tensions grew over North Korea’s missile launches.
The image of “USS Abraham Lincoln” was widely shared on international media, as seen here and here.
However, the claim images we are fact-checking do not show the US aircraft carrier.
Google reverse search results for the first image shows the North Korea intercontinental missile facility.
The image was captured by the Associated Press on 10 October 2020 and credited to the media agency.
The image shows an intercontinental missile displayed by North Korea at Kim II Sung Square in Pyongyang during the military parade performed on 10 October 2020.
The photo search results for the second image also indicate that the image of Biden and Jong-un side by side has been online since April 2021 and used in multiple stories, as can be seen here.
PesaCheck has investigated a post claiming to show the US aircraft carrier deployed in the Korean peninsula and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*jCWHI8DF7KrHPNV5