URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-doesnt-show-ethiopian-commandos-entering-tigrayan-towns-in-september-2022-8d44bdd30be9
FALSE: This image doesn’t show Ethiopian commandos entering Tigrayan towns in September 2022 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-10-16T08:41:58.567Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with an image claiming to show Ethiopian commandos entering Tigray regional towns in September 2022 is FALSE.
Part of the post in Amharic, translates as; “ Uplifting Breaking Information. The Air Force has partially seized the town of Wukro, which is about 47 kilometres from Mekelle. It is already known that the yesterday airstrikes helped to demolish two TPLF’s huge trenches, and now special commandos have started to enter Wukro town. A drone attack has been carried out on Adigrat by detecting the whereabouts of the members of the terrorist TPLF. In addition, a truck that was transporting soldiers to Kobo was destroyed by a drone.”
The post, which was shared on 16 September 2022, adds: “On Hara, Tekulesh, and Gobeye sides, there is heavy fighting currently, and it has been confirmed that TPLF has deployed a large number of forces on this front. On the other front, the hero, who is known for its strong military discipline and civility, as well as its public companion, is advancing in the principle of ‘strike in silence’ and controlled Adi Hagerai, Adi Nebri, Dugali, Adi Daron, and Tsaada Midri towns that are found next to Shiraro.”
Ethiopia’s war began in November 2020, and there are reports of killings, atrocities and displacement of many people.
This image on this claim, however, doesn’t show Ethiopian commandos entering Tigray region towns in September 2022 as claimed.
Reverse image search results established that the image is of ENDF soldiers walking in the streets of Kombolcha, Amhara region, in 2021. The image was also shared here and here.
The photo was taken on 11 December 2021 by Amanuel Sileshi/AFP via Getty Image.
PesaCheck has looked into the Facebook post with an image claiming to show Ethiopian commandos entering Tigray region towns in September 2022 and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*dHuWf6m7nHCkvfkr