URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-is-not-of-bodies-of-ethiopian-refugees-found-in-a-mass-grave-in-malawi-in-october-7c0368a24f07
FALSE: This image is not of bodies of Ethiopian refugees found in a mass grave in Malawi in October 2022 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-12-06T09:04:52.328Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with an image claiming to be of dead Ethiopian refugees in a mass grave in Malawi in October 2022 is FALSE.
The Amharic text accompanying the image translates to; “The stepson of former Malawian President Peter Mutharika has been arrested in connection with the case of a body found in a mass grave last month, which is believed to be that of Ethiopian refugees, the police announced. Citing a police spokesperson, the French news service reported that the suspect, Tadikira Mafubza, surrendered after learning that the police wanted him.”
“Spokesperson Peter Kalaya said the police have evidence that clearly links Mafubza to the case of the bodies of 30 people believed to be Ethiopian refugees found in a mass grave in Mzimba. As a result, Mafubza has been arrested and other suspects are being sought, the spokesman said. The French news service, which broke the news, did not say why Mafubza was suspected,” the post adds.
According to the publication, the police were alerted about the incident by Mzimba residents who had been collecting honey in a forest. The honey gatherers had been overwhelmed by the smell of the decomposing bodies buried in various locations, the post says.
The post said 30 bodies, suspected to be of Ethiopians aged between 25 and 40, were dug out after several days. The victims were said to have been headed to South Africa.
The post with the same content and image was shared on this Facebook account.
However, Google reverse image search results showed that the image under investigation is of migrants found in a container in Mozambique in 2020.
The picture was published on this website on 24 March 2020 with the caption, “Some of the 14 illegal immigrants who survived rest after they were found in a container transported on a truck in Tete province, in the western part of Mozambique, Mussacama, 24 March 2020.”
The same image was used on this website article with the heading, “More than 60 people found dead in cargo containers in Mozambique: East Africa.”
There are news reports that bodies of suspected Ethiopians were found in a mass grave in Malawi in October 2022. Also, Malawi’s former leader’s stepson was arrested concerning the mass graves.
PesaCheck has examined the Facebook image claiming to be of bodies of Ethiopian refugees found in a mass grave in Malawi in October 2022 and found it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*PJA5Qs2GIB9wUP63