URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-claim-that-this-photo-shows-ethiopian-air-force-destroying-tplf-training-camps-is-untrue-ca1d2fb51f62
FALSE: Claim that this photo shows Ethiopian Air Force destroying TPLF training camps is untrue | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-10-27T06:55:05.774Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post claiming to show Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) training camps in Wukro and Shire destroyed by the Ethiopian Air Force is FALSE.
The Amharic text accompanying the photo translates as; “Victory news of the hero Ethiopian Air Force. The invincible Ethiopian Air Force continues to attack Junta’s military capabilities with successful targets. Accordingly; The Air force of Ethiopia attacked the training centre of the TPLF army which was located at Wukro. Also, they destroyed the junta’s military capacity which was located at Shire Inda Selassie. Victory for our heroes.”
Wukro is a town in the Tigray region of northern Ethiopia. Shire, also known as Inda Selassie, is a city and separate district in the Tigray region.
On 24 August 2022, fighting resumed between government forces and TPLF in northern Ethiopia, shattering a five-month truce.
On 4 October 2022, Getachew Reda, the spokesperson of the Tigrayan forces, tweeted: “Ethiopian and Eritrean government forces launched an attack in Adayabo in the north of the region targeting Tigrayan forces.”
However, a Google reverse image search established that the picture was published online before the conflict resumed in August 2022.
The image has been online since 2020 and has been published on different platforms as seen here, here, here, and here with a caption indicating that it is of a MiG-29 fighter aircraft belonging to the Uzbekistan Air Force firing S-8 rockets.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post claiming to show the Ethiopian Air Force destroying TPLF training camps in Wukro and Shire and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*a_qTd_71Qv6hmnST