URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-dont-show-u-s-dacb7e338f7a
FALSE: These images don’t show U.S. hypersonic missile test to counter security threats in August 2022 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-08-12T15:19:40.124Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with images claiming to show the United States of America (U.S.) involvement in hypersonic missile drills to counter security threats by Russia and China is FALSE.
“America stated its concern,” reads the headline of the Amharic post shared on 5 August 2022.
“America stated that it has begun hypersonic missile exercises in response to a potential hypersonic missile attack by Russia and China,” part of the post reads.
“Military Times reported that, America stated that the two countries may attack New York and three other American cities and may also carry out attacks using dangerous chemicals and hence America needs to prepare to respond accordingly.”
The post is accompanied by an image of U.S. President Joe Biden and pictures showing missiles.
However, Biden’s image used in the claim was originally captured by Associated Press photographer Matt Slocum on 17 June 2020. The picture shows the then Democratic Party presidential candidate speaking in Darby, Pennsylvania State.
Also, the other attached images do not show the US hypersonic missile test as claimed.
Yandex image search results for the first missile image show a new hypersonic missile test by North Korea in September 2021.
North Korea’s Academy of Defence Science test-fired the Hwasong-8 in Toyang-ri, Ryongrim, Jagang Province, in September 2021.
Similarly, the second and third photos are similar and they show the U.S. Army Integrated Air and Missile Defence test in February 2021, according to Yandex image search result. The image was captured in a video showing a U.S. missile test in February 2021.
Moreover, although the post claims the Military Times reported about the U.S. testing hypersonic missiles to counter security threats by Russia and China, the claim is unfounded. A review of the Military Times website provides no content on the said tests in August 2022.
What is available on the Military Times website is a report that the US postponed a test launch of an intercontinental ballistic missile amid the increased tension with China over Taiwan.
PesaCheck has investigated a post shared on Facebook claiming the U.S. began hypersonic missile tests to counter Russian and China security threats and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*37BbwiEUlYhgoZen