URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-chinese-military-drills-around-taiwan-in-2022-1a063962559c
FALSE: These images do not show Chinese military drills around Taiwan in 2022 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-08-24T10:02:51.601Z

Listen
Share
These thumbnail images from two different article links shared on Facebook, claiming to show the Chinese army are FALSE.
The first post in the Amharic language translates as; “The Chinese army has announced that it has completed the military mission it was conducting around Taiwan. China’s military has announced that the drills will continue with the goal of ‘being fully prepared for combat’.”
Similar claims containing the same photo have been shared here and here.
A link that directs to the Al Ain website is attached to the post. The same image is found on the Al Ain website with the description: “Chinese army military exercise”.
However, Google reverse image search results show that the image is not of the Chinese army.
The picture was published on the Getty Images website on 17 January 2017. The accompanying caption: “Taiwan special forces personnel walk behind an armoured personnel carrier during an annual military drill in Taichung, central Taiwan, on January 17, 2017. Taiwan’s defence ministry on January 17 kicked off a two-day demonstration to showcase its combat skills and weaponry as the military urged increased vigilance following a recent spate of drills staged by China as relations deteriorate.” Image credit is given to SAM YEH/AFP via Getty Images.
Similarly, the image was shared on The Guardian website on 7 October 2021.
The same picture has previously been published on other websites.
The second Facebook post contains a link to this website purporting to contain details about the military drills.
The Amharic post reads: “The Chinese army has announced that it has completed the military mission it was conducting around Taiwan. According to the Chinese army announcement preparations are underway that aim for war.” The picture appearing on the post is the same as the one used on the website.
However, results from a Google reverse image search revealed that the image does not show Chinese soldiers in a military drill around Taiwan in 2022.
The picture was published on the Alamy website on 22 September 2018. “Historical reenactment of soldiers attacking a tank during the Second World War,” the description of the photo states. Image credit is given to Kamila Kozioł / Alamy Stock Photo.
As seen here and here, the same image was shared on other websites.
United States House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi visited Taiwan in early August 2022 amid warnings not to do so from China. After the visit, China reacted by conducting military drills near Taiwan. China later announced that it had completed the military exercise.
PesaCheck has examined two thumbnail images shared on Facebook claiming to show the Chinese army drills and finds them to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*9uqYpFmXE_o6iW1s