URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-this-image-is-unrelated-to-the-war-in-tigray-5e7dbe56dc0e
FALSE: This image is unrelated to the war in Tigray | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-01-16T06:22:21.897Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with an image claiming to portray the situation in Ethiopia’s Tigray region is FALSE.
The image is accompanied by a post in Amharic that translates to; “Breaking information. The government announced that it will control airports in the Tigray region. In order to protect the country’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, the Ethiopian government has announced that it will control airports in the Tigray region and federal government institutions in the region.”
The post adds: “The government was forced to take this step not only because of repeated attacks by the TPLF forces but also because this force together with foreign forces threatened the country’s sovereignty, according to the statement released by the government’s communication service today. It added the measure it is taking is important to protect Ethiopian airspace and prevent the country’s sovereignty and territorial integrity from falling into danger. Additionally, the measure is important for the people of the Tigray region to receive the necessary humanitarian aid.”
However, Google reverse image search results established that the claim image is unrelated to the war in Tigray.
The image was shared on this website on 6 January 2021 to advance an article with the title, “Iran holds large-scale drone military exercise”.
The same picture was posted on this Twitter account on 6 January 2021. Part of the tweet says: “Thread on new UAVs drill of the Iranian Army that started on 5 Jan 2021.”
The photo was also published on this website on 2 August 2022 in an article with the headline, “Why Russia could turn to Iran for drones”.
The two-year fighting in the northern parts of Ethiopia stopped after the African Union-led peace talks and the cease-fire agreement in Pretoria, South Africa. Reports also indicate that some essential services like electricity and telecoms have been restored in some parts of Tigray as banks prepare to resume service.
PesaCheck has examined the Facebook post with an image claiming to portray the situation in the Tigray region, Ethiopia, and found it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*wYQVmszNn39DekvU