URL: https://pesacheck.org/false-these-images-do-not-show-ugandans-killed-under-president-musevenis-regime-ae4aa74e7d1b
FALSE: These images do not show Ugandans killed under President Museveni’s regime | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-01-22T06:09:31.036Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with images claiming to show Ugandans killed under President Yoweri Museveni’s regime is FALSE.
The post contains 12 images showing gory scenes of what appears to be bodies of people hacked to death, lying on the ground in the middle of a heavily treed area. A number of onlookers are standing at a distance in some images.
The post accompanying the disturbing images says that the photos show 10 youth who were arrested by police only to be found dead in a forest in Mukono North, in a place called Kitutuli along Kayunga road. The post takes a swipe at “democracy” adding, “… this is what is called freedom brought by the NRM”.
The post seems to make reference to the National Resistance Movement (NRM), the ruling political party in Uganda which fronted President Museveni as its flag bearer in the just-concluded elections.
However, a Google reverse image search brings up a number of articles illustrated using the same photos in the Facebook post. One of the articles is by Mediapart, a Paris-based digital news magazine. The article, published on January 15, 2021, contains two of the images in question.
Although the photos are not captioned, the article describes the events that lead to the killings and identifies the area the images were taken as Ruwenzori, a commune of the city of Beni in North Kivu, Democratic Republic of the Congo.
According to the description, eight people went to the fields to harvest beans on the eve of the year 2021, never to return. A search by their relatives discovered the macabre scenes, lifeless bodies, savagely beheaded by the enemies of the Congolese people in Bunia.
The article also admonishes the administration in Kinshasa for its apparent inaction in the wake of the bloodletting and points an accusing finger at Rwanda, Uganda, Burundi, Zambia and Angola for the attacks.
Other websites, such as congovox.com and lomag-man.org, contain more images of the incident, corroborating the likelihood that they were taken in DRC and not Uganda, as claimed.
PesaCheck has looked into the Facebook post with images claiming to show Ugandans killed under President Yoweri Museveni’s regime, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*Kt3oDLWoLKfTg1Qt