URL: https://pesacheck.org/hoax-this-image-of-the-daily-nations-front-page-claiming-that-william-ruto-s-bank-accounts-have-652839b1b923
HOAX: This image of the Daily Nation’s front page claiming that William Ruto’s bank accounts have been frozen is fake | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-05-29T14:04:35.506Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post claiming to show the front page of the Daily Nation newspaper is FALSE.
The post contains an image with the Daily Nation’s branding, along with a headline stating that the government had frozen the bank account of Deputy President William Ruto.
The Facebook post links the alleged freezing of accounts to corruption scandals, including the Arror and Kimwarer dam scandal, implying that they are linked to the DP.
Readers are directed to page 19 to read the full story but no link is provided in the post and the article is not featured in the authentic copy of the newspaper published on May 28, 2020, suggesting that the image in the post has been doctored.
The authentic Daily Nation front page corresponding to that date carries a photograph of President Uhuru Kenyatta with a splash headline “For Uhuru, season of tough decisions.”
The publication tweeted both the authentic and the doctored front page of the paper side by side, cautioning members of the public not to fall for false headlines.
In a phone interview with PesaCheck, Nation Media Group (NMG) head of corporate affairs Clifford Machoka stated that those behind the doctored front page may have tried to hijack the Nation Media Group’s brand for political purposes.
“We are an apolitical and independent media house that is not affiliated to any political party or candidate and we are very clear in our editorial guidelines and policies. We usually carry the cover story of any of our brands on the individual social media accounts every day, first thing in the morning,” Mr Machoka said.
PesaCheck has looked into the Facebook post of an image of the front page of a Kenyan daily newspaper, the Daily Nation, claiming that the government has frozen DP Ruto’s bank accounts, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*sPwmzZ-zZFmRwjN0