URL: https://pesacheck.org/hoax-this-photo-does-not-show-raila-odinga-being-chased-away-by-a-mob-on-october-30-acaf5ed2580e
HOAX: This photo does not show Raila Odinga being chased away by a mob on October 30 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-10-30T13:54:50.538Z

Listen
Share
A photo shared on Facebook claiming to show Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party leader Raila Odinga being chased away by an angry mob on October 30, 2020, is FALSE.
The caption says the mob demanded that Mr Odinga should champion for the involvement of every Kenyan in the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI). It, however, doesn’t mention the location of the incident.
The BBI report was relaunched at the Bomas of Kenya on October 26. The initiative — the brainchild of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Mr Odinga — was conceived in March 2018 in the famous “Handshake” agreement, that ended months of post-election demonstrations and confrontations that had seen dozens killed by the police.
In the report, the BBI task force has come up with a number of recommendations, including restructuring government to re-introduce a hybrid system of government featuring shared power between a president and a prime minister, with members of Kenya’s parliament now allowed to become part of the Cabinet. Election losers have been tossed a bone, with the runner-up in the presidential elections, automatically gaining a seat in parliament as leader of the official opposition.
However, the photo in the post doesn’t show Mr Odinga being chased away from a rally by an angry mob on October 30.
The former prime minister left the country on October 29, for a two-day visit in the Democratic Republic of Congo, in his capacity as the African Union (AU) High Representative for Infrastructure Development, where he is expected to meet with the host, President Felix Tshisekedi, to review the progress of the Grand Inga Hydropower project.
A reverse image search also shows that the photo was published on November 17, 2017, when Mr Odinga returned to Kenya after boycotting the rerun of the presidential elections held that year. The photo is credited to Jeff Angote of the Nation Media Group.
PesaCheck has looked into a photo shared on Facebook claiming to show ODM leader Raila Odinga being chased away by an angry mob on October 30, 2020, and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/1*-VlS1XcXH1KxpSsuS56Hfw.png