URL: https://pesacheck.org/hoax-this-facebook-page-offering-cash-giveaways-alongside-an-image-of-dwayne-the-rock-johnson-28270f65b8d6
HOAX: This Facebook page offering cash giveaways alongside an image of Dwayne ‘The Rock’ Johnson is fake | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-07-08T14:02:36.787Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook account with a photo of actor Dwayne Johnson, popularly known as ‘The Rock’, and offering cash prizes is FAKE.
The page contains a number of posts, including one asking users to find the first letter of their name on an alphabetical list, which will determine what prize they will get.
The post asks those interested in taking part to share the post to five Facebook groups in order to increase their chances of winning as much as $60 million.
While the posts and the page do not specifically state that the gifts are from Mr Johnson, his image features prominently alongside images of stacks of dollar bills.
Despite the promise that winners will receive their money within 15 minutes of applying, no clear procedure for how the money will be disbursed is provided.
A reverse image search reveals that this same photo of Mr Johnson has been featured in a number of online scams, and has been subject to several fact check articles.
The Facebook account, named Dicko, features the image of a smiling Dwayne Johnson as the profile photo, while the cover photo shows another image of him with a stash of cash behind him.
However, a reverse image search shows that the photo was published by MTV alongside a news feature in October 2017, and does not include stacks of cash behind Mr Johnson. This indicates that the image on the page has been manipulated to include the image of the money.
Additionally, Mr Johnson’s Facebook page does not contain any giveaways.
In September 2018, Mr Johnson took to Instagram to warn the public against phony Facebook accounts using his image and likeness to promote fake giveaways.
‘Sorry if you’ve been affected by these fake Facebook accounts asking for money or worse yet, actually engaged with them enough to send money in. Hey, I get it, sometimes when we’re broke and struggling to make ends meet, the promise of a fast buck can be appealing’ — Dwayne ‘The Rock’ Johnson
He added that it was hard to prevent the scammers, but urged the public to be smart, vigilant, and not to engage the scammers.
PesaCheck has investigated similar pages impersonating celebrities, such as Nigerian actress Regina Daniels and Crown Prince Hamdan bin Mohamed al-Maktoum of Dubai offering giveaways in the same manner used on this page, and also found them to be false.
PesaCheck has looked into the Facebook page with a photo of actor Dwayne Johnson offering cash giveaways and finds it to be FAKE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*6GfeUMiEXfAHC4X2