URL: https://pesacheck.org/hoax-these-photos-do-not-show-protests-in-uganda-following-the-2021-general-election-bd0c3c3ae82
HOAX: These photos do not show protests in Uganda following the 2021 general election | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-01-20T06:00:41.040Z

Listen
Share
Three photographs shared on Facebook claiming to show people protesting in Uganda on January 18, 2021, are FALSE.
The pictures were posted two days after Uganda’s Electoral Commission declared the incumbent president, Yoweri Museveni, the winner of the 2021 election.
Mr Museveni won almost 59 percent of the vote, with Bobi Wine coming second with about 35 percent, the Electoral Commission said.
However, Bobi Wine has disputed the results and vowed to provide evidence of vote-rigging.
PesaCheck ran a reverse image search and traced the three photographs to news reports.
Image 1
The photograph appears on a January 17, 2021 article by glbnews.com. The article indicates that it shows a violent ехсhаngе bеtwееn Guatemalan ѕесurіtу fоrсеѕ and a caravan of thоuѕаndѕ оf Ноndurаnѕ аttеmрtіng tо trаvеl tо thе Unіtеd Ѕtаtеѕ. The photo is credited to Las Noticias del Rincón.
Image 2
The second photograph features in another January 17 article on the glbnews.com website and shows the Guatemala military blocking Honduran migrants attempting to make their way to the US. The photo is credited to Luis Echeveria of Reuters.
Image 3
The third photograph was published on the Agencia EFE news website on January 17, 2021. The article in which the image is embedded says it shows Guatemalan security forces trying to stop Honduran migrants from attempting to cross into the US.
PesaCheck has looked into the authenticity of three photographs claiming to show protests in Uganda on January 18, 2021, two days after Mr Museveni was declared the winner of the just-concluded presidential election and finds them to be FALSE.
By partnering with Facebook and similar social media platforms, third-party fact-checking organisations like PesaCheck are helping to sort fact from fiction. We do this by giving the public deeper insight and context to posts they see in their social media feeds.
Have you spotted what you think is fake news or false information on Facebook? Here’s how you can report. And, here’s more information on PesaCheck’s methodology for fact-checking questionable content.
This fact-check was written by PesaCheck fact-checker James Okong’o and edited by chief copy editor Rose Lukalo. It was approved for publication by managing editor Enock Nyariki.
PesaCheck is East Africa’s first public finance fact-checking initiative. It was co-founded by Catherine Gicheru and Justin Arenstein, and is being incubated by the continent’s largest civic technology and data journalism accelerator: Code for Africa. It seeks to help the public separate fact from fiction in public pronouncements about the numbers that shape our world, with a special emphasis on pronouncements about public finances that shape government’s delivery of Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) public services, such as healthcare, rural development and access to water/sanitation. PesaCheck also tests the accuracy of media reportage. To find out more about the project, visit pesacheck.org.
PesaCheck is an initiative of Code for Africa, through its innovateAFRICA fund, with support from Deutsche Welle Akademie, in partnership with a coalition of local African media and other civic watchdog organisations.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*0hHfIT5CA2HeugLs