URL: https://pesacheck.org/hoax-this-photo-does-not-show-president-obama-and-his-family-taking-part-in-a-protest-67d97bca00e
HOAX: This photo does not show President Obama and his family taking part in a protest | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-06-05T07:11:39.281Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with a photo claiming to show former US President Barack Obama and his family participating in a protest is FALSE.
Many people who are commenting on the post, which has been shared over 90 times, link it to the ongoing George Floyd killing protests in the US.
A reverse image search shows that the photo of President Obama and Congressman John Lewis leading a march was taken on March 7, 2015, and not during any protests or the ongoing protests associated with Mr George Floyd’s death.
The photo, credited to Doug Mills of the New York Times, shows Obama, Congressman Lewis and citizens marching to mark the 50th anniversary of protests in Selma, Alabama. Police beat up peaceful black civil rights demonstrators as they crossed the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma and marched on to a highway on March 7, 1965, in what came to be known as ‘Bloody Sunday.’
Mr Floyd, a 46-year-old black man, died on May 25 while in police custody, after he was arrested by Minneapolis officers on suspicion of buying cigarettes with counterfeit money.
In a video that has gone viral, former police officer Derek Chauvin is seen pinning Floyd to the ground with his knee on the suspect’s neck. Floyd died after complaining he couldn’t breathe. His death has sparked outrage in major US cities and some parts of the world, with protesters calling for an end to police violence against black citizens.
Derek has since been charged with second-degree murder while three other officers who were at the scene during the killing have also been charged with aiding and abetting second-degree murder.
On June 3, Minnesota Senator Amy Klobuchar confirmed the charges on Twitter, saying that the latest charges were an important step for justice.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with a photo claiming to show President Obama and his family participating in a protest and finds it to be FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*YrK7DiBoILyeZchS