URL: https://211check.org/jebel-kujur-manipulated-images-fact-checked
Jebel Kujur manipulated images fact checked - 211CHECK

Publication Date:2021-04-29T12:51:16+00:00
Author: Emmanuel Bida
Online fact checking investigative findings regarding some recent pictures alleged to have been taken on top of Jebel Kujur in Juba have revealed those images as untrue. 
Last week, some photos made rounds on social media, especially on Facebook, that are perceived to have been taken at Jebel Kujur in Juba.
Two of the photos were shared widely by both some sensational FACEBOOK PAGES and individuals, depicting activities that they say “hikers do on the mountain top during their regular exercises”.
Hiking on Jebel Kujur has become a hobby for a notable number of Juba residents.
Below are a few examples of some images manipulated by some individuals. 
But, are these photos from Jebel Kujur? No, they are manipulated images, according to 211 Check investigations.   
The team of fact checkers Reverse Image Search images and online Photo-forensics software shows the photos to have been manipulated. They are probably photoshopped or edited using other sophisticated graphics applications. 
The first photo “Daggering_21.jpg”, alleged to have been taken at Jebel Kujur, was shared by Chiara Meatteli, a London based journalist, photographer and video maker in 2018. It originated from “Jamaica”.
In order to confirm it for yourself, here is the link to the Photo. 
The second photo that many online users believed to have been taken at Jebel Kujur, was shared on the Student Life website in an article titled: “Safe ‘sex’ at W.I.L.D.?” by Noah Charak, a sex columnist on October 8th, 2010. 
In the article, the photo depicts “daggering”, a form of dance popularized in Jamaica. Here is the link to the Photo. 
Note: To avoid spreading false information, don’t rush into sharing content that you aren’t sure of or you don’t know its origin.
To know about our fact-checking process, check the link below, https://211check.org/how-to-fact-check/ or contact us via 211check.org to present a claim – our team will immediately fact-check it and send you an immediate feedback.  
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Image URLs :
https://211check.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/Screenshot_20210427-140313-649x1030.png