URL: https://factly.in/kissing-couples-images-in-the-post-arent-from-jawaharlal-nehru-university-jnu-new-delhi
‘Kissing couples’ images in the post aren’t from Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), New Delhi - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-11-18T10:52:58+00:00
A post with two images that show couples kissing in public is being shared widely with the claim that they are the photos of ‘Kiss Day’ celebrated in JNU, New Delhi. Let’s try to analyze the claim made in the post.
Claim: Images of ‘Kiss Day’ at Jawaharlal National University (JNU), New Delhi.
Fact: The images were taken during the ‘Kiss of Love’ rally at the Marine Drive in Kochi (Kerala) in 2014 and 2017 and are not related to the ‘Kiss of Love’ campaign in JNU. Hence, the claim is MISLEADING.
When the images in the post are subjected to Google reverse image search technique, search results were obtained about the ‘Kiss of Love’ rally at the Marine drive in Kochi (Kerala). 
Image-1: The image was found in the article of ‘Deccan Chronicle’ and from the information in the article, the photo was found to be taken during the ‘Kiss of Love’ protest held in 2017 at the Marine Drive in Kochi (Kerala). The same can also be read in the article of ‘Asianage’
Image-2: The image was found in the article of ‘Bangalore Mirror’ and from the information in the article, this photo was also found to be taken in 2014 during the ‘Kiss of Love’ protest held at the Marine Drive in Kochi (Kerala). The same can also be found from the article of ‘E-vartha’.
According to an article in Times of India, some of the students participated in the ‘Kiss of Love’ campaign in JNU. But, the posted images are not related to JNU.
To conclude, images taken during the ‘Kiss of Love’ rally at the Marine Drive in Kochi (Kerala) are shared as the images of ‘Kiss Day’ at Jawaharlal National University (JNU), New Delhi 
Did you watch our new Episode of the DECODE series?

Pingback: ‘Kissing couples’ images in the post aren’t from Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), New Delhi - Fact Checking Tools | Factbase.us

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/11/JNu-students-kissing-FB-post.jpg