URL: https://factly.in/mamata-banerjees-letter-to-look-into-nrc-list-is-photoshopped-shared-as-accepting-ramayan-from-amit-shah
Mamata Banerjee's letter to look into NRC list is photoshopped & shared as accepting Ramayan from Amit Shah - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-09-22T14:29:07+00:00
A post with the picture of Mamata Banerjee and Amit Shah is being shared as Mamata Banerjee accepting Ramayan from Amit Shah. The picture also shows a document with the words ‘Jai Shree Ram’ written on it in Hindi. Let’s try to analyze the claim and the authenticity of the picture.
Claim: Mamata Banerjee accepting Ramayan from Amit Shah.
Fact: Mamata Banerjee’s letter to Amit Shah regarding the 19 lakh people left out of NRC list is photoshopped and shared as if she is accepting Ramayan from Amit Shah. Hence, the claim is FALSE. 
When searched on Google with the keywords ‘Mamata Banerjee meeting Amit Shah’, many search result were obtained about her meeting with Amit Shah on 19 September 2019, during her visit to New Delhi. You can read about their meeting here and here.
Pictures similar to those from the post can be found in this tweet from ANI and the video regarding their meeting can be seen here. None of these pictures and video show Amit Shah presenting a book with the words ‘Jai Shree Ram’ written on it in Hindi. Mamata Banerjee in her interaction with the media after the meeting mentioned that, she handed over a letter to Amit Shah regarding the 19 lakh people who were left out of the NRC list, many of them being genuine voters.
WB CM Mamata Banerjee: I handed over a letter to him (HM Amit Shah), told him that of the 19 Lakh people left out of NRC, many are Hindi speaking, Bengali speaking & local Assamese. Many genuine voters have been left out. This should be looked into. I submitted an official letter pic.twitter.com/PiBPbZM02M
So, Mamata Banerjee’s letter to Amit Shah asking to look into the genuine voters who were left out of NRC list is photshopped and shared as if she is receiving Ramayan from Amit Shah.
Did you watch our new Episode of the DECODE series?
A great believer in democracy, Bharath is convinced that the citizens of this country have a huge role to play in making it successful and effective. But he observes that with misinformation taking centre stage in the socio-political discourse, the very foundation of democracy is at threat. The shared belief that every citizen has the right to factual information without bias is what made Bharath associate with Factly since its inception. He heads Operations and Fact-checking projects at Factly.
Pingback: Mamata Banerjee’s letter to look into NRC list is photoshopped & shared as accepting Ramayan from Amit Shah - Fact Checking Tools | Factbase.us

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/09/Mamata-Benerji-JaiShriRam-Twitter-Post.png