URL: https://factly.in/marine-habitats-photos-shared-as-underwater-pictures-of-dwaraka-city-in-india
Marine habitats photos shared as underwater pictures of Dwaraka city in India - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-01-22T08:31:14+00:00
A collage with a group of images is being shared on social media claiming these pictures as the underwater pictures of Dwaraka city that sunk inside the Western coast of India 5500 years ago. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Underwater pictures of Dwaraka city in India.
Fact: Three of the four photos shared in the post are from ‘The DIG Atlantis’ marine habitat located on the paradise island of Bahamas. The other photo is from Neptune Memorial Reef underwater columbarium located in Florida state of United States. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE. 
Image 1&4:
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, we found a similar image posted in ‘Pinterest’ website. In the description of the photo, it is mentioned as the artistic redemption of ‘The Lost City of Atlantis’, created inside ‘The Dig Atlantis’ marine habitat at the Paradise Island in Bahamas. When we searched for more reliable sources using these keywords, we found the same image in an article published by ‘Practical Paradise Island’ website. On the website, this image is mentioned as the visual from ‘The DIG Atlantis’ Underwater Wonderland located on Paradise Island in the Bahamas. A similar visual found in the video posted on the official YouTube channel of Atlantis Bahamas.
The same image found in the google images of ‘The DIG Atlantis’ marine habitat. We can see the same architecture in the YouTube videos posted by some tourists. A tourist shared the complete inside view of ‘The DIG Atlantis’ marine habitat on his YouTube channel. Another photo of the same structure captured from a different angle is also found on the Atlantis Bahamas official Instagram channel.
Image 2:
A similar picture of the majestic column is found in the article published in ‘Practical Paradise Island’ website. This photo is mentioned as the architecture from ‘The DIG Atlantis’ marine habitant located on paradise island in the Bahamas. Atlantis Bahamas official Pinterest handle has also shared the same picture through their account.
We can see a similar visual in the YouTube videos published by a few tourists of ‘The DIG Atlantis’ marine habitat. They can be seen here and here.
Image 3:
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar visual was found in the article published on the Amusing Planet website. In the article, it is mentioned as the visual from Neptune Memorial Reef underwater columbarium located in Florida. This reef was initially constructed as the replica of ‘The Lost City of Atlantis’, but later it shifted to a more profitable goal by becoming the world’s first underwater cemetery and memorial park. Reporting the same, few other websites published articles on Neptune Memorial Reef memorial park.
Similar sculpture visuals can be seen here and here in the videos uploaded on the YouTube channel of ‘NeptuneMemorialReef’. Also, the same architecture can be seen in the photo gallery of Neptune Memorial Reef. From all these pieces of evidence, it is concluded that this photo shared in the post is from Neptune Memorial Reef in Florida.
To sum it up, photos from different marine habitats in the world shared as the underwater pictures of Dwaraka city in India.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/01/Under-water-images-of-Dwaraka-city-Claim.jpg