URL: https://pesacheck.org/misleading-this-image-showing-dennis-itumbi-with-a-cast-on-a-different-leg-has-been-flipped-960cc70e9458
MISLEADING: This image showing Dennis Itumbi with a cast on a different leg has been flipped | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-01-28T17:43:21.766Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post claiming that Public communications and digital strategist Dennis Itumbi’s injury is fake because his cast has been switching from one leg to another is MISLEADING.
“Ever since “abduction,” looks like Dennis Itumbi wakes up each day with a different broken leg. In other words, the injury switches from one leg to the other like a light switch,” the Facebook post reads in part.
Two images of Itumbi are attached — one when is pictured in a blue hospital gown, an arm sling and cast on his left hand and a modern reusable cast on his right foot. Two men support him as he strives to walk. In the second image, Itumbi poses for a photo. This time, his right hand holds a cast and the modern cast is on his left foot. Itumbi does not have an arm sling and clings onto a crutch using his left arm.
So is Itumbi’s modern reusable cast on his right or left foot? We checked.
On 1 January 2022, NTV Kenya published a video of Itumbi walking in a hospital corridor in a blue gown and the modern reusable cast was on his right foot and the arm sling and cast on his left hand. Similarly, on 18 January 2022, Itumbi updated his cover photo which showed him sitting across Deputy President William Ruto. In the image, Itumbi is pictured with a modern reusable cast on his right foot, a cast on his left hand, and a crutch on his right arm.
Therefore, the second frame in the Facebook post we are fact-checking was flipped to appear like Itumbi has a cast on his left foot and right hand instead of the opposite.
Research shows that one can easily flip an image using a camera phone application. You need to press the edit button then flip the image in the opposite direction. You can also use editing applications such as Photoshop Express and Google’s Snapseed.
If you are using an iPhone, you can easily flip an image by opening the photos app, selecting the image you would like to flip and pressing the edit button. Click on the crop icon at the bottom of your screen, then tap the bisected triangle on the top left corner. This will flip your image in the opposite direction. Once you have flipped your photo, click done, and the image will be saved in your gallery.
To demonstrate how the process works, we flipped an image of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Cabinet Secretary for Tourism and Wildlife Najib Balala. Kenyatta is on the left in the original image, and CS Balala is on the right. Once you flip the image using the iPhone photo app, President Kenyatta shifts to the right and CS Balala to the left.
Itumbi was reported missing on 23 December 2021 by two of his close friends at Thindigua Police Station in Kiambu County. They told the police that Itumbi was at a barbershop in Thindigua when he was kidnapped, put in a vehicle and sped off.
He was later abandoned at Lakisama area, Kasarani, Nairobi and found with a broken arm and injured legs and was admitted to Nairobi West Hospital’s Intensive Care Unit after being diagnosed with pneumonia following his abduction. Itumbi left the ICU on 31 December 2021 and was discharged from the hospital on 1 January 2022.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post claiming that Public communications and digital strategist Dennis Itumbi’s injury is fake because his cast has been switching from one leg to another and finds that it is MISLEADING.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*5Ww-mZ2GNYMrZdbe