URL: https://pesacheck.org/misleading-this-image-does-not-show-the-arbitrary-arrest-of-tigrayans-in-ethiopia-707718df51ad
MISLEADING: This image does not show the arbitrary arrest of Tigrayans in Ethiopia | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-07-28T19:55:12.850Z

1
Listen
Share
An image shared on Twitter claiming to show the arbitrary arrest of ethnic Tigrayans, activists and journalists is FALSE.
“Police in Addis Ababa have arbitrarily arrested and detained dozens of Tigrayans, activists, and journalists without due process. @AbiyAhmedAli must end these arbitrary detentions and reveal the whereabouts of unaccounted detainees,” the tweet reads.
The photo shows a security officer patting down a man, whose arms are outstretched as others stand in line behind him.
The image featured in an article by human rights organisation, Amnesty International.
The article, dated 16 July 2021, reports that arbitrary arrests have indeed taken place and the arrests appeared to target journalists and activists following the recapture of Tigray’s capital — Mekelle — by the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF). No caption accompanies the image in the Amnesty International article.
“Following the withdrawal of the Ethiopian National Defense Force from parts of Tigray and the announcement of a unilateral ceasefire by the Federal government on 28 June, for the last two weeks Tigrayans in Addis Ababa have been arbitrarily arrested and detained,” Amnesty International’s director for East and Southern Africa, Deprose Muchena, said.
The organisation goes on to urge the Ethiopian government to end the arbitrary detentions or prefer charges against those held while ensuring they receive a fair trial.
Two other agencies, the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) and the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission (EHRC), have denounced the arrests of media workers and residents of Tigray ethnic origin.
However, the image used by Amnesty International was not captured during the arrest of journalists, activists and Tigrayans as reported.
A Google reverse search finds that the image has been used in several instances before. A further search traces the photo to Getty images — a digital images repository — and credits the picture to photographer Amanuel Sileshi.
Additionally, Amanuel took to Twitter, decrying the use of his photograph to accompany an unrelated story.
“Dear @amnesty, please take down the photo I did for @AFPphoto @AFP covering election day and security check personnels before they enter polling stations. Please use your own story with related pictures,” Amanuel posted.
He also attached the image showing how it was initially used.
“TOPSHOT — A police officer checks people who are in line to cast their ballots before polls open in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, on June 21, 2021, during Ethiopia’s legislative and regional elections,” the description of the photo on Getty Images reads.
Amnesty International has since pulled down the image and replaced it with one of police officers holding police shields.
PesaCheck has looked into a Twitter photo claiming to show the arbitrary arrest of Tigrayans, activists and journalists and finds it to be MISLEADING.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*Xa5l4ax5maZCnjMG