URL: https://pesacheck.org/missing-context-these-photos-of-nup-candidate-harriet-nakwedde-with-different-bandage-placements-ba8f18b2743d
MISSING CONTEXT: These photos of NUP candidate, Harriet Nakwedde, with different bandage placements is a camera effect | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-12-20T21:21:49.542Z

Listen
Share
A tweet with images claiming to show the bandage on the face of Harriet Nakwedde, switched from the left side to the right, has MISSING CONTEXT.
Nakwedde was the National Unity Platform (NUP) party candidate in the Kayunga Local Council by-election held on 16 December 2021.
A collage of two images claiming to show Nakwedde after being discharged from the hospital and during a press conference is attached to the post.
The post reads, “Kayunga LCV NUP candidate discharged from hospital. The plaster has now switched from left to right”.
However, several images in different posts, as seen here, here and here, show that the selfie in the second image was inverted making the bandage look like it changed sides.
Images posted on Nakwedde’s social media accounts show that the bandage was on the left side. However, the image in the claim shows the bandage is on the right side because of a phone camera setting, as it flipped automatically to avoid the “mirror effect” after taking the selfie.
As explained in the articles here and here, when we see our image in the mirror (or the front-facing camera before clicking a selfie), it is flipped. Flipped in the sense that when we raise our left hand, the image raises its right hand.
This explanation can be used to understand why the plaster in one photo appears to be on the left and the right side in the other image.
PesaCheck has looked into a tweet with images claiming to show the plaster on the face of Harriet Nakwedde, the Kayunga LCV National Unity Platform party candidate, switched from the left side to right and finds it to have MISSING CONTEXT.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*8QQM0XL-fod4jEhX