URL: https://pesacheck.org/missing-context-these-images-of-a-government-vehicle-seized-with-weapons-in-kenyas-north-rift-are-3ce2fc6d9a8a
MISSING CONTEXT: These images of a government vehicle seized with weapons in Kenya’s North Rift are old | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-02-28T18:23:04.473Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with images purportedly of a government vehicle impounded with weapons along the Lodwar-Kakuma road is MISSING CONTEXT.
The post reads: “A vehicle with registration number GKB345M was nabbed along Lodwar-Kakuma road with six AK 47 rifles and six magazines together with 30 rounds of ammunition all hidden behind the driver’s seat.”
President William Ruto has ordered a joint Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) and police security operation in all banditry-prone areas effective 14 February 2023.
Ruto, who was speaking after meeting Baringo County leaders, also gave a three-day amnesty for the surrender of firearms, warning that action would be taken against those who defied the disarmament order.
The images in question, however, are old and unrelated to the ongoing security operation.
A Google reverse image search for the image of the vehicle and a TinEye search for the image with three people seated on the ground leads back to an article dated 14 May 2018.
The article bears the headline, “{PHOTOS} GK vehicle nabbed with six AK 47 rifles, three suspects arrested”.
According to the report, the incident happened along the Lodwar-Kakuma road, where police arrested three suspects with six AK 47 rifles and 30 rounds of ammunition in a vehicle bearing a Government of Kenya (GK) registration plate.
A Google reverse image search for the image of the six rifles shows that it was featured in an article dated 8 September 2018, and is related to the Lodwar-Kakuma road arrest.
The headline reads, “Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet Orders Arrest of MPs Over Killings”.
The seized GK vehicle allegedly belonged to a Turkana member of Parliament.
Further search for the keywords “GK vehicle allegedly belonging to Turkana MP caught with weapons” shows that the three photos in the claim were shared on Twitter on 14 May 2018.
The post reads: “A GK vehicle allegedly belonging to Turkana South MP James Lomenen was caught with purchased firearms from South Sudan just few minutes after they had finished exchanging from another vehicle allegedly belonging to the former Nanam Ward MCA. Nanam Ward is in Turkana West.”
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with images purportedly of a government vehicle seized with weapons along the Lodwar-Kakuma road and finds it to be MISSING CONTEXT.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*T40CmY5GUxGyP3jM