URL: https://factly.in/morphed-photo-shared-as-visuals-of-taliban-men-wearing-burka-and-pretending-as-afghan-women
Morphed photo shared as visuals of Taliban men wearing Burka and pretending as Afghan women - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-09-15T08:27:07+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it as visuals of Taliban men wearing burkas and pretending as pro-Taliban Afghan women. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of Taliban men wearing burkha and pretending as pro-Taliban Afghan women in a meeting.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is a morphed one. On 11 September 2021, tens of pro-Taliban Afghan women have marched a rally in support of the Taliban government and attended a lecture at Kabul University. This photo in the post was created by adding a man face on one of the pro-Taliban women who attended the Kabul University lecture. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in several tweets posted by Twitter users on 11 September 2021. They can be seen here and here. But the man in burkha attire was not visible in these pictures. ‘TOLO’ news channel Head Lotfullah Najafizada tweeted the original version of the picture on 11 September 2021. Lotfullah Najafizada mentioned it as the visuals of pro-Taliban women gathered in Kabul.
Pro-Taliban women gathering in Kabul. pic.twitter.com/G9GYNpzjNl
When we searched for more sources using these keywords, the original photo was found in an article published by the Afghanistan-based ‘Khaama’ news agency. This article reported that on 11 September 2021, tens of Kabul University women have marched a rally in support of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan and attended a lecture at Kabul University.  Around 300 women have reportedly attended this meeting following the strict new dress policies imposed by the Taliban Government. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the image shared in the post is a morphed one.
To sum it up, a morphed photo is being shared as visuals of Taliban men wearing Burka and pretending as Afghan women.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/09/Taliban-men-wearing-burka-and-pretending-as-pro-Taliban-Afghan-women-Claim.jpg