URL: https://factly.in/morphed-photo-shared-as-visuals-of-aravind-kejriwal-and-bhagwant-mann-drinking-alcohol
Morphed photo shared as visuals of Arvind Kejriwal and Bhagwant Mann consuming alcohol - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-04-11T13:04:23+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it is a recent picture of Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann consuming alcohol and having a non-vegetarian meal together. This photo shows both these AAP leaders sitting in front of two disposable glasses filled with alcohol and eating non-vegetarian food served on their plates. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.  
Claim: Recent picture of Bhagwant Mann and Arvind Kejriwal  consuming alcohol and having a non-vegetarian meal together.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is a morphed one. The original picture does not show alcohol-filled disposable glasses in front of both these AAP leaders. The picture was shot in November 2021 when AAP convenor Arvind Kejriwal along with Bhagwant Mann had dinner at the house of an auto-rickshaw driver in Ludhiana, Punjab. The auto-rickshaw driver’s family did not serve the non-vegetarian items to these leaders. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo of Arvind Kejriwal having a meal along with Bhagwant Mann was found in an article published by the ‘India.com’ news website on 23 November 2021. This article reported it as the picture of Arvind Kejriwal having dinner at the house of an auto-rickshaw driver in Ludhiana, Punjab.
The original picture shared by this article does not show alcohol-filled disposable glasses in front of both these AAP leaders. Also, we could see roti and a curry on the plates served for both Kejriwal and Bhagwant Mann. The auto-rickshaw driver’s family did not serve the non-vegetarian items as shown in the photo shared in the post.
On 22 November 2021, AAP’s official Twitter handle published a few pictures of Arvind Kejriwal’s visit to the auto-rickshaw driver’s family in Ludhiana. Several news websites published articles and videos reporting Arvind Kejriwal’s gesture towards an auto-rickshaw driver’s family. They can be seen here and here. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the photo shared in the post is a morphed one.
Punjab के एक Auto Driver के Invitation पर CM @ArvindKejriwal जी उसी की ऑटो में बैठ कर उनके घर खाना खाने पहुँचे! pic.twitter.com/XDcaquwj5s
To sum it up, a morphed photo is being shared as visuals of Arvind Kejriwal and Bhagwant Mann consuming alcohol.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/04/Bhagawat-Mann-and-Kejriwal-drinking-photo-Claim.jpg