URL: https://factly.in/morphed-image-of-pm-modi-and-amit-shah-wearing-islamic-caps-is-being-linked-to-west-bengal-assembly-elections
Morphed image of PM Modi & Amit Shah wearing Islamic caps is being linked to West Bengal Assembly elections - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-04-02T13:43:02+00:00
An image showing Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah wearing skull caps is being shared on social media claiming it as the cheap tactic of the BJP to grab the minority votes in West Bengal. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of PM Narendra Modi and Amit Shah wearing Islamic skull caps ahead of West Bengal assembly elections.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is a morphed one. In the original photo, PM Narendra Modi and Amit Shah have do not wear skull caps. This photo was shot while Narendra Modi and Amit Shah were leaving the late Arun Jaitley’s residence in New Delhi. This photo has nothing to do with the West Bengal Assembly elections in 2021. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a photo with a similar visual of PM Narendra Modi and Amit Shah was found in an article published by the ‘News 18’ website, on 28 August 2019. In the original photo, Narendra Modi and Amit Shah did not wear skull caps. The description of the photo states ‘PM Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah leave after paying their condolence to the family members of Former Finance Minister late Arun Jaitley, at their residence in New Delhi’.
The original photo was found in several other news articles published in 2019. They can be seen here and here. Also, this photo was published on the ‘Getty Images’ website with a similar description. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the photo shared in the post is a morphed one.
To sum it up, a morphed image of PM Narendra Modi and Amit Shah wearing skull caps is being linked to the West Bengal Assembly elections.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/04/PM-Modi-and-Amit-Shah-with-Islamic-caps-Claim.jpg