URL: https://factly.in/morphed-pictures-shared-as-pm-modi-wearing-an-islamic-skull-cap
Morphed pictures shared as PM Modi wearing an Islamic skull cap - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-02-13T09:42:57+00:00
A graphic with a collage of two images in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi is seen wearing an Islamic skull cap is being shared on social media. Let’s fact-check these photos through this article.
Claim: Pictures of PM Narendra Modi wearing an Islamic Skull Cap.
Fact: PM Modi visited Mumbai on 10 February 2023 to inaugurate the Aljamea-tus-Saifiyah Arabic Academy. The viral post contains two photos of PM Modi captured during this event. However, in the original photos posted on the official Twitter accounts of PM Modi and the Maharashtra CM Eknath Shinde, who also accompanied him, PM Modi can be seen without any Skull Cap on his head. Hence the claim made in the post is False.
We observed Maharashtra CM Eknath Shinde in one of the photos in the viral collage. Based on this, we made a keyword search the internet for relevant photos. This search led us to a few news reports (here, here and here) containing images of PM Modi and Shinde wearing similar attire. According to these news reports, on 10 February 2023, PM Modi inaugurated the campus of Aljamea-tus-Saifiyah Arabic Academy in Mumbai, the principal educational institute of the Dawoodi Bohra community 
Further, we searched the Twitter accounts of PM Modi and Eknath Shinde for photos in the viral post.  In the original photos, both pictures (here and here) do not have PM Modi wearing any cap on his head. This clearly proves that the images in the viral collage have been digitally morphed to make PM Modi look like he wore the Islamic Skull Cap. You can observe this in the comparison drawn between the original and morphed photos below.
Also, this is not the first time that PM Narendra Modi met the Dawoodi Bohra community. In September 2018, he attended a programme conducted by the community in Indore, Madhya Pradesh. You may read news reports on this event here and here.
To sum it up, these pictures of PM Modi wearing a skull cap are digitally morphed.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/02/Modi-wearing-a-Skull-Cap-Claim-1024x564.jpg