URL: https://factly.in/morphed-photo-shared-as-health-worker-extending-insulting-gesture-towards-pm-modi
Morphed photo shared as health worker making an obscene gesture at PM Modi - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-10-25T11:49:30+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it as visuals of a woman health worker making an obscene gesture at PM Narendra Modi. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Image of a woman health worker making an obscene gesture at PM Modi.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is a morphed one. The original photo does not show this woman worker making an obscene gesture with her middle finger at PM Narendra Modi. This photo was shot when Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave a thumbs up to healthcare workers at Delhi’s RML Hospital as India crossed administering one billion COVID-19 vaccine doses. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE. 
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in a tweet made by the ‘ANI’ on 21 October 2021. ‘ANI’ reported it as the visuals of PM Narendra Modi giving thumbs up to the health workers at Delhi’s RML hospital on the occasion of India crossing the administration of one billion (100 crores) COVID-19 vaccine doses. But the original photo did show this woman health worker making an obscene ‘middle finger’ gesture at PM Modi.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi gives a thumbs up to healthcare workers at Delhi's RML Hospital today morning as India crosses one billion COVID19 vaccinations pic.twitter.com/3HzhY6oNfX
Sharing the same original photo, a few other news websites published articles about PM Narendra Modi celebrating one billion COVID-19 vaccine doses success with Delhi’s RML hospital health workers. They can be seen here and here.
To sum it up, a morphed photo is being shared as a woman health worker making an obscene gesture at PM Narendra Modi.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/10/Woman-health-workers-obscene-middle-finger-gesture-towards-Modi-Claim.jpg