URL: https://factly.in/morphed-picture-shared-as-portrait-of-pm-modi-inside-the-house-of-a-gujarat-man-where-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-dined
Morphed picture shared as portrait of PM Modi inside the house of a Gujarat auto-driver where Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal dined - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-09-14T08:45:04+00:00
A picture is being shared on social media claiming that Arvind Kejriwal quickly left the house of the Gujarat auto-driver who invited him for dinner when he saw a portrait of PM Modi in his house. It claims that he just had food and left without eating sweets. Let’s fact-check the claim through this article.
Claim: Arvind Kejriwal left the house of the Gujarat auto-driver who invited him for dinner after he saw a portrait of PM Modi inside his home.
Fact: The photo captured during Arvind Kejriwal’s visit to a Gujarat auto-driver’s house for dinner was published by various media outlets in their news reports. The original picture does not contain a portrait of PM Modi. It is digitally added to the original picture. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
To know the exact details behind the picture, we performed a reverse image search on Google and were led to multiple news media reports which contained the same image (here and here). Reportedly, upon an invitation he received from an auto-driver of Gujarat, the Chief Minister of Delhi, Arvind Kejriwal, visited the man’s home in Gujarat for dinner.
Kejriwal has posted a few pictures of this meeting on Twitter. The image in the viral post is also part of these pictures. However, there is a difference; the image from the viral post contains a portrait of PM Narendra Modi, while the picture posted by Arvind Kejriwal has some other photograph in the same place.
Another picture captured from a different angle also shows a different portrait in place of the PM Modi’s portrait shared in the viral post.  With this evidence, we can conclude that the post’s picture is digitally morphed, and a portrait of Narendra Modi was added.
To summarise, a morphed picture is being shared as portrait of PM Modi inside the house of a Gujarat man where Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal dined.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/09/Kejriwal-Narendra-Modi-Portrait-01-986x1024.jpg