URL: https://factly.in/morphed-image-shared-as-visuals-of-pm-modi-bowing-to-nita-ambani
Morphed image shared as visuals of PM Modi bowing to Nita Ambani - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-04-23T12:32:39+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it as visuals of Prime Minister Narendra Modi bowing with folded hands to Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani’s wife Nita Ambani. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of PM Narendra Modi bowing with folded hands to Mukesh Ambani’s wife Nita Ambani.
Fact:  The photo shared in the post is a morphed one. The original photo shows PM Narendra Modi greeting the ‘Divya Jyoti Cultural Organization and Welfare Society’ Chief Functional Officer Deepika Mondol, not Nita Ambani. This photo was reportedly shot during an event in April 2015. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search, a similar photo was found in an article published by the ‘Divya Marathi’ news website. In the original photo, PM Narendra Modi was not bowing down to Mukesh Ambani’s wife Nita Ambani. This article reported it as the visuals of PM Narendra Modi greeting a Delhi-based NGO worker, Deepika Mondol. This photo reportedly was captured during an event in April 2015. ‘Amar Ujala’ news website reported the same in an article published on 12 April 2018.
During an interview, Deepika Mondol revealed the reason for PM Narendra Modi’s special gesture towards her. Deepika Mondol clarified it as the kind gesture of PM Narendra Modi after knowing her as a prominent social worker. Deepika Mondol, the Chief Functional Officer of ‘Divya Jyoti Cultural Organization and Welfare Society’, works on promoting Indian culture, education, information & technology, and tribal welfare.
Earlier, FACTLY had debunked the same image when it was shared as visuals of PM Narendra Modi bowing to Gautam Adani’s wife Priti Adani,
To sum it up, a morphed image of PM Narendra Modi greeting an NGO worker is shared as him bowing down to Mukesh Ambani’s wife Nita Ambani.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/04/Narendra-Modi-bowing-to-Nita-Ambani-Claim.jpg