URL: https://factly.in/morphed-photo-falsely-shared-as-rahul-gandhi-watching-obscene-pictures-of-a-woman-in-his-phone
Morphed photo falsely shared as Rahul Gandhi watching obscene pictures of a woman in his phone - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-07-24T11:35:13+00:00
A photo of Rahul Gandhi looking at obscene pictures of a woman on his mobile phone is being shared on social media wondering if such a person is eligible to become the PM. Let’s verify if the imaged shared in the post is real or not.
Claim: Photo of Rahul Gandhi looking at obscene pictures of a woman on his mobile phone.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is an edited one. This photo was shot during the time of demonetization when Rahul Gandhi visited an SBI bank for exchanging his old currency notes. In the original photo, Rahul Gandhi was seen holding old 1000 rupee notes in his hand. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the original photo was found in ‘Getty Images’ website. It is mentioned that this photo was shot when Rahul Gandhi visited a bank in Delhi to exchange his old currency notes during the time of demonetization. In the original photo, Rahul Gandhi is seen holding old 1000 rupee notes in his hand. Currency notes in the hand of Rahul Gandhi are morphed with a mobile phone showing obscene pictures of a woman in Bikini.
On ‘8 November 2016’, the Narendra Modi Government announced demonetization of 500 and 1000 rupee currency notes in the country. To exchange his demonetized currency notes with the new ones, Rahul Gandhi visited State Bank of India (SBI) parliament street branch in New Delhi on ‘11 November 2016’. Articles and video footage about this incident could be seen here, here and here.
To sum it up, morphed photo of Rahul Gandhi exchanging demonetized notes is falsely shared as him looking at obscene pictures of a woman on his mobile phone.
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/07/Rahul-gandhi-watching-obscene-pictures-claim.jpg