URL: https://factly.in/morphed-photo-shared-as-nita-ambani-drinking-the-worlds-most-expensive-water
Morphed photo shared as Nita Ambani drinking the world’s most expensive water - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-11-19T07:25:56+00:00
A photo through a post is being widely shared on social media claiming that Nita Ambani drinks the world’s most expensive water that costs 40 lakh rupees per bottle. Let us fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of Nita Ambani drinking the world’s most expensive water.Fact: The photo is morphed from an image taken during an IPL match in 2015 when Nita Ambani was drinking water from a normal bottled water. According to the Guinness World Records, ‘Tributo Modigliani, Acqua di Cristallo’ is the most expensive water bottle. It was sold at an auction for $60,000 in 2010. According to company’s website, the bottle is a limited edition with only one bottle worldwide. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When reverse image search is done on the photo, a similar image was found on a website. According to the website, the picture was taken during Indian Premier League Season 8 in 2015. Though Nita Ambani could be seen drinking water from a bottle, there is no mention of her drinking the most expensive water.
When the image from the website is compared with the photo, one can see that the photo was morphed to include another bottle of water. In both the photos, a watch, red thread on one hand, and a blue band on the other can be seen.
According to the Guinness World Records website, ‘Tributo Modigliani, Acqua di Cristallo’ is the most expensive water bottle. It was sold at an auction for $60,000. “The glass bottle is covered in 24-karat gold and is based on artwork by the late Italian artist Amedeo Clemente Modigliani”. According to the company’s website, the water is a blend of natural spring water from Fiji and France and contains actual glacier water from Iceland; also has 5mg of sprinkled 23-karat gold dust. “Limited edition, only 1 bottle worldwide.”
To sum it up, this photo shared as Nita Ambani drinking the world’s most expensive water has been morphed.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/11/Nita-Ambani-Drinking-Costliest-Water-Photo_post.jpg