URL: https://factly.in/morphed-image-shared-as-photographer-lying-on-the-ground-to-capture-pm-modis-photo
Morphed image shared as photographer lying on the ground to capture PM Modi’s photo - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-10-04T08:19:48+00:00
An image of a photographer lying on ground while capturing a photo of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is being widely shared on social media. Let’s find out the truth behind this image.
Claim: Image of photographer lying on the ground while capturing the photo of PM Narendra Modi.
Fact: This photo was captured on 02 October 2021 during PM Modi’s visit to Gandhi Smriti. The original image shared on Modi’s Twitter account and other news agencies doesn’t show any photographer lying on the ground. The image of photographer lying on the ground was uploaded on stock photography website Alamy in 2017. This image was inserted into PM Modi’s photo. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Reverse image search led us to the original image shared by Official Twitter handle of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on 02 October 2021. These photos were taken when Modi visited Gandhi Smriti in Delhi to offer tributes to Mahatma Gandhi.
Took part in a prayer meeting at the Gandhi Smriti in Delhi. pic.twitter.com/bP2xuv7rRr
Photos published by ANI news, The Siasat Daily about this this event also do not show any photographer lying on the ground. The live streamed video of this event available on PM Modi’s YouTube channel also confirms the same.
We then did a reverse image search by cropping the photographer’s image and found this photo on stock photography website Alamy with the title, “Photographer lying on the ground while photographing a large building from different perspective”. Description shows that this photo was taken on 15 March 2017. This stock image is inserted into Modi’s photo to create a morphed image
To sum it up, a morphed image is being shared as photographer lying on the ground to capture a photo of PM Narendra Modi.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/10/modi-morphed-photo-viral-post.png