URL: https://factly.in/morphed-image-shared-as-modi-riding-bicycle-alongside-drug-case-accused-pamela-goswami
Morphed image shared as Modi riding bicycle alongside drug case accused Pamela Goswami - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-03-05T11:35:12+00:00
A post accompanying an image of Modi riding bicycle alongside the West Bengal drug case accused Pamela Goswami is being widely shared across social media platforms. Through this article let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Image of Modi riding bicycle alongside drug case accused Pamela Goswami.
Fact: Image of Modi on a bicycle gifted by the Dutch Prime Minister during his visit to the Netherlands back in 2017 is digitally placed alongside Pamela Goswami. Both Pamela Goswami and Narendra Modi shared their individual images on bicycles on their respective social media accounts. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Reverse image search of the photo in the post led us to the original image of Pamela Goswami riding a bicycle which she shared on her Facebook account on 01 December 2020.
Further simple Google search with keywords ‘Modi riding Bicycle’ yielded many news articles which shared the mirror image version of Modi’s photo in the post. According to one such article by Indian Express,  the image was clicked when the Dutch PM Mark Rutte gifted it to Modi during his visit to the Netherlands back in 2017. Another news article by Economic Times also shared few images of Modi on a bicycle from his visit to the Netherlands. From all these, it is evident that this image of Modi is digitally morphed and placed alongside Pamela Goswami.
Narendra Modi also shared few images of him with the bicycle gifted by the Netherlands Prime Minister on his twitter account.
Thank you @MinPres @markrutte for the bicycle. pic.twitter.com/tTVPfGNC9k
To sum it up, this image of Modi riding bicycle alongside of Pamela Goswami is digitally morphed.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/03/Modi-with-Drug-Accused-FB-Post.jpg