URL: https://factly.in/morphed-photo-shared-as-yogi-adityanaths-provoking-tweet-against-the-jat-community-in-uttar-pradesh
Morphed photo shared as Yogi Adityanath’s provocative tweet against the Jat community in Uttar Pradesh - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-02-04T09:19:24+00:00
A screenshot of a tweet purportedly made by Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath is being shared on social media claiming that Yogi Adityanath’s tweet has provocative statements against the Jat community in Uttar Pradesh. This purported tweet of Yogi Adityanath asks people to vote for BJP so that could take the Jat community to task in Kairana, Muzaffarnagar, and other places in Uttar Pradesh. In the wake of the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Elections in 2022, this post is being shared on social media. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Yogi Adityanath’s provocative tweet against the Jat community in Uttar Pradesh.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is a morphed one. On 29 January 2022, Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath tweeted that the Samajwadi Party candidate from Kairana is making threatening statements and he will will calm down after 10th March once the election results are announced. On 30 January 2022, while addressing a public rally in Hapur, Yogi Adityanath said that the heat visible at Muzaffar Nagar and Kairana will calm down after the elections. Yogi Adityanath made this statement referring to the opposition leaders, not the people of Jat community. Yogi Adityanath did not make any provocative statements against the Jat community on his Twitter handle. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.  
When we searched to check whether Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath had made any such provocative tweet against the Jat community, we could not find any such tweet on the Yogi Adityanath’s Twitter handle. Yogi Adityanath made only one tweet about the Jat community on 18 September 2018. This tweet was about a social meeting organised for the Jat society in Lucknow.  
On 29 January 2022, Yogi Adityanath tweeted that the Samajwadi party candidate from Kairana made threatening statements about him and the BJP.  Yogi Adityanath in the tweet said that the opposition candidate will cool down after polling on 10 March 2022. Yogi Adityanath made this tweet referring to Kairana’s former SP candidate Nahid Hasan who was arrested under the Gangster act on 15 January 2022.
कैराना से तमंचावादी पार्टी का प्रत्याशी धमकी दे रहा है, यानी गर्मी अभी शांत नहीं हुई है!10 मार्च के बाद गर्मी शांत हो जाएगी…
On 30 January 2022, while addressing a public meeting in Hapur, Yogi Adityantath said that those who are feeling emboldened in Kairana and Muzaffarnagar will be taken to task after March 10. Yogi Adityanath’s statement was directed towards Nahid Hasan and other Samajwadi leaders from Kairana and Muzaffarnagar. Also, during his Hapur rally address, Yogi Adityanath referred to Samajwadi Party Chief Akhilesh Yadav and Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Jayant Singh Chaudary as two boys joined up to incite riots in Uttar Pradesh. Several news websites published articles reporting this information. They can be seen here and here.
According to the ‘The Hindu’ article, the statements made by Yogi Adityanath were interpreted in different ways by the BJP supporters and Rashtriya Lok Dal supporters. It is reported that the Rashtriya Lok Dal supporters took Yogi Adityanath’s statement as disrespect to Jats. But Yogi Adityanath did not make any direct provocative statements against the Jat community on his Twitter handle or any public meeting recently held in Uttar Pradesh.
To sum it up, a morphed photo is being shared as Yogi Adityanath’s provocative tweet against the Jat community in Uttar Pradesh.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/02/Yogi-Adityanath-tweet-on-Jat-community-Claim.jpg