URL: https://factly.in/morphed-image-shared-as-amit-shah-eating-fish-biryani-in-west-bengal-while-farmers-are-protesting
Morphed image shared as Amit Shah eating fish biryani in West Bengal amidst farmers' protests - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-12-24T11:48:01+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it as the picture of Home Minister Amit Shah having fish-biryani in West Bengal. The post claims that Amit Shah is eating Biryani while farmers are protesting on the streets in the heavy cold. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of Amit Shah eating fish biryani in West Bengal.
Fact: Photo shared in the post is a morphed one. In the original photo, Amit Shah was provided with a vegetable platter with Bengal delicacies. This photo was captured while Amit Shah was having lunch at a farmer’s house in Midnapore district of West Bengal. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the screenshots shared in the post, the original photo is found in an article published by ‘The Economic Times’ on ’19 December 2020’. In the original photo, Amit Shah was seen eating rice and vegetable dishes. In the article, it is reported as the photo of  Amit Shah having lunch at farmer’s house in Midnapore district, West Bengal. This event took place on ’19 December 2020’ during Amit Shah’s two-day rally programme in West Bengal. The farmer’s family provided Amit Shah a vegetable platter with Bengal delicacies.
Amit Shah shared this photo on his Twitter handle while expressing his gratitude to the farmer’s family. BJP West Bengal also shared the original photo on their official Twitter handle. More articles about Amit Shah’s visit to the farmer house in West Bengal can be found here and here.
During his November 2020 visit to West Bengal, Amit Shah had a similar lunch in a tribal BJP party worker’s home. Amit Shah was provided with a similar vegetable platter by the tribal family.
To sum it up, a morphed image is being shared as the photo of Amit Shah eating fish biryani in West Bengal while farmers are protesting in the streets.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/12/Amit-Shah-eating-fish-biryani-Claim.jpg