URL: https://factly.in/morphed-photo-shared-as-akhilesh-yadav-holding-a-placard-in-support-of-the-yogi-government
Morphed photo shared as Akhilesh Yadav holding a placard in support of Yogi government - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-01-31T12:47:12+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it as the picture of Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav holding a placard in support of the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh. The text on the placard reads, “जो राम को लाए हैं. हम उनको लाएंगे” (when translated to English it reads, “The man who brought Ram, we will bring him”). In the wake of the upcoming Uttar Pradesh elections in 2022, this photo is going viral on social media. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of SP Chief Akhilesh Yadav holding a placard in support of the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttarpradesh.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is a morphed one. The original picture shows Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav holding a placard with the Hindi text, “नौकरी-रोज़गार संकल्प श्रृंखला; प्रथम संकल्प: IT सेक्टर” (when translated to English it reads: Job-Employment Resolution Series; First Preference: IT Sector). On 22 January 2022, Akhilesh Yadav made an election promise that he will provide employment for 22 lakh youths in the IT sector if his party comes to power in the upcoming 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When the same photo was shared by a user on Twitter, journalist Ranvijay Singh tweeted the original picture and clarified that the viral photo circulating on social media is an edited one. The text in the original placard shows, “नौकरी-रोज़गार संकल्प श्रृंखला; प्रथम संकल्प: IT सेक्टर” (when translated to English it reads: Job-Employment Resolution Series; First Preference: IT Sector).
When we searched for more sources, we found the original picture on the Samajwadi Party official Facebook page. On 22 January 2022, Akhilesh Yadav made an election promise that he will provide employment for 22 lakh youth in the IT sector if his party comes to power in the upcoming 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. Highlighting Akhilesh Yadav’s election promise, Samajwadi Party shared these pictures on their Facebook page. Samajwadi Party had shared the original picture on their official Twitter handle also.
समाजवादी पार्टी के राष्ट्रीय अध्यक्ष एवं पूर्व मुख्यमंत्री श्री अखिलेश यादव ने घोषणा की है कि 2022 के विधानसभा चुनाव में समाजवादी पार्टी की सरकार बनने पर ‘नौकरी-रोजगार संकल्प श्रृंखला‘ में आईटी सेक्टर में 22 लाख नौजवानों को नौकरी दी जाएगी। https://t.co/yCqLEA4rFG pic.twitter.com/pI8aahCkkT
Akhilesh Yadav had also tweeted about his election promise of employing 22 lakh youth of the state in the IT sector. Sharing the original picture, several news websites have published articles and videos. They can be seen here, here, and here. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the photo shared in the post is a morphed one.
To sum it up, a morphed photo is being shared as Akhilesh Yadav holding a placard in support of the Yogi government in Uttar Pradesh.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/01/Akhilesh-Yadav-holding-placard-in-support-of-the-Yogi-Adityanath-Government-Claim.jpg