URL: https://factly.in/morphed-photos-shared-as-cpi-m-leaders-protesting-against-indian-army-in-support-of-china
Morphed photos shared as CPI (M) leaders protesting against Indian army in support of China - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-06-21T07:24:39+00:00
Photos of CPI (M) leaders Sitaram Yechury and Brinda Karat holding ‘Indian army Down..Down.. we support to China…Zindabad’ placards, is shared on social media claiming their support to China. These photos are shared in the context of the recent border clash between India and China in Galwan valley (Ladakh). Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photos of CPI (M) leaders protest against the Indian army in support of China.
Fact: The photos are morphed versions of those captured during CPI(M) protests against government policies, demanding cash transfer to families outside the income tax bracket. The content on the placards held during these protests is edited and shared as ‘CPI (M) leaders protest against the Indian army in support of China’. Hence the claim made is FALSE.    
When searched for the information with keywords, it is found out that the photos shown in the post are the edited versions of those related to a protest organized by CPI(M) in New Delhi on 16 June 2020. Original photos related to the incident were shared in the tweet posted by CPI(M) official twitter account.
All India Protest against Modi govt's anti-people policies.#PeopleProtestModiGovt pic.twitter.com/oJRUqXHsN5
Image-1
In the original photo, Brinda Karat held a placard demanding the government to provide 10 kgs of food grains to all the people who are in need.
Image-2:
In the original photo, Sitaram Yechury held a placard, demanding the government to provide rupees 7,500 per month to the people who are outside the income tax bracket, for three months.
More photos of the protest held by CPI(M) leaders on 16 June 2020, can be found on Sitaram Yechury twitter profile. Video coverage on these protests can also be viewed here.
To sum it up, content on the placards held during CPI(M) leaders protests against government policies, demanding cash transfer to families outside the income tax bracket, is edited and shared as ‘CPI leaders protest against the Indian army in support of China’.  
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/06/CPIM-Leaders-placards-claim.jpg