URL: https://factly.in/morphed-images-falsely-shared-as-visuals-of-pm-modi-amit-shah-visiting-brothel-houses
Morphed images falsely shared as visuals of PM Modi, Amit Shah visiting brothels - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-04-15T14:23:23+00:00
A collage with a couple of photos is being shared on social media claiming it as the visuals of PM Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah visiting brothels in India. The first photo shows PM Narendra Modi visiting a brothel with four women. The other photo shows Amit Shah entering Kolkata red-light area, Sonagachi. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photos of PM Narendra Modi, Amit Shah visiting brothels in India.
Fact: The photos shared in the post are morphed ones. In the original version of the first photo, PM Modi was not present in between the four women. The second photo was shot during Amit Shah’s door-to-door campaign programme at the Bhabanipur constituency in West Bengal. The original photo doesn’t contain any address with the word ‘Sonagachi’. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Photo-1:
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found to be published as the reference image in several news articles. They can be seen here and here. In the original photo, PM Narendra Modi was not present in between the four women seen in the picture. Earlier, the same image was morphed with a photo of Jawaharlal Nehru and was shared on social media. These posts can be seen here and here.
Photo-2:
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in Amit Shah’s recent tweet on 09 April 2021. In the tweet, Amit Shah mentioned it as the visuals from Bhabanipur door-to-door campaign in West Bengal. In the wake of the West Bengal Assembly Elections 2021, Amit Shah took part in the door-to-door campaign at the Bhabanipur assembly constituency. The original photo doesn’t contain any address with the word ‘Sonagachi’.
Few more from Bhabanipur’s door to door campaign. #BJP200PlusInBengal pic.twitter.com/wuuKmeaZyz
To sum it up, morphed images are falsely being shared as visuals of PM Narendra Modi, Amit Shah visiting brothels in India.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/04/PM-Modi-Amit-Shah-visiting-Brothels-in-India-Claim.jpg