URL: https://factly.in/morphed-image-shared-as-man-urinating-on-congress-party-wall-poster
Morphed image shared as man urinating on Congress party wall poster - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-01-12T11:12:02+00:00
A post with an image that shows a man urinating on Congress party wall poster is being shared across social media platforms. Through this article let’s fact-check the veracity of the image in the post.
Claim: Image showing a man urinating on Congress party wall poster.
Fact: In the original image, the man was urinating on an empty wall. The image was featured in a 2016 listicle. This image of a man urinating on an empty wall is digitally edited to look like he is urinating on Congress party wall poster. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Reverse image search of the photo in the post led us to a 2016 listicle titled ‘18 hilarious photos where Indians prove that ‘Rules are meant to be broken’ by a news agency in which the same image of man urinating is featured. However, the original image in the listicle shows a man urinating on an empty wall but not on Congress party wall poster.
Also, the same image of a man urinating was featured in a couple of other similar listicles which can be read here and here. Even in these two listicles, the man was urinating on an empty wall. Further reverse image search of the image in the post led us to a 2009 news article which carried an image of Congress party wall poster which is similar to the one in the post. It is possible that this image of congress party wall poster is digitally placed on the wall on which the man was urinating.
Earlier the same image of a urinating man in the listicle was digitally edited to make it look like the man was urinating on Narendra Modi’s wall poster. This was also widely shared on social media. All these establish the fact that the image of man urinating on an empty wall was digitally edited to look like the man is urinating on Congress party wall poster or for that matter any other political party wall poster.
To sum it up, the image of a man urinating on an empty wall is digitally edited to look like he is urinating on Congress party wall poster.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/01/Man-urinating-Poster-FB-Post.jpg