URL: https://factly.in/morphed-image-shared-as-first-picture-of-ranbir-kapoor-and-alia-bhatt-couples-newborn-baby-girl
Morphed image shared as first picture of Ranbir Kapoor and Alia Bhatt's newborn baby girl - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-11-16T11:51:17+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it is the first picture of Alia Bhatt’s newborn baby girl. This photo shows Alia Bhatt holding a baby in her arms. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: First picture of Alia Bhatt and Ranbir’s newborn baby girl.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is a morphed one. The original photo shows author Ali Maffucci holding her identical twin boys in September 2021. Alia Bhatt’s face was overlaid on Ali Maffucci’s face in the original photo and alleged to be the first picture of Alia Bhatt’s newborn baby girl. As of now, Ranbir and Alia did not publicly share the picture of their daughter. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When we searched to check whether Alia Bhatt and Ranbir Kapoor shared this picture on social media, we could not find this picture in any of the official social media handles. On 06 November 2022, Alia Bhatt and Ranbir announced the birth of their first baby girl through social media. As of now, Ranbir and Alia did not share the pictures of their daughter. Even the media could not click the clear photographs of Ranbir and Alia’s daughter.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in a blog post published by an author named Ali Maffucci on the ‘Inspiralized’ blog site. Ali Maffucci in the blog post detailed the birth story of her identical twin boys, Rio and Sol. The original photo shows Ali Maffucci holding her identical twin boys, and she shared similar pictures of her newborn twin boys on her Instagram page, on 12 September 2021. The latest pictures of these twin boys can be seen here and here.
On comparing Ali Maffucci’s photo with the photo shared in the post, one could conclude that the baby Alia Bhatt is seen holding in the viral photo is identical to the baby Ali Maffucci is holding in her left arm in the original photo. The photo shared in the post was created by editing Alia Bhatt’s face on Maffucci’s face in the original photo.
To sum it up, a morphed image is being shared as the first picture of Ranbir Kapoor and Alia Bhatt’s newborn baby girl.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/11/Alia-Bhatts-new-born-baby-picture-Claim.jpg