URL: https://factly.in/morphed-image-shared-as-hoarding-against-the-narendra-modi-led-bjp-government
Morphed image shared as hoarding against the Narendra Modi led BJP Government - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-03-09T12:11:26+00:00
An image of hoarding with PM Narendra Modi’s photo is being shared on social media claiming it as the anti-Modi poster at a busy road in India. In the wake of increasing fuel prices in India, this poster asks people not to vote for Narendra Modi led BJP Government. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of a hoarding asking for the removal of Modi government due to increasing prices.
Fact: The Photo shared in the post is an edited one. The original poster praises the Narendra Modi led BJP Government and asks people to stand with Modi. This poster of Narendra Modi is seen at a Delhi street in December 2014. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo of Narendra Modi hoarding was found in the ‘Live Mint’ article published on 29 December 2014. The original poster praises BJP Government under the leadership of Narendra Modi. Also, it asks people to support Narendra Modi and stand by him. The ‘Live Mint’ article reported it as the Narendra Modi poster at a street in Delhi ahead of the Assembly Elections in early 2015. This photo is credited to the ‘Live Mint’ photographer, Pradeep Gaur.
The original poster is also found in the articles published by other news websites. They can be seen here and here. Earlier, the same image of hoarding was morphed to show the difference in petrol prices between 2013 and 2018. Tweets with this image can be seen here and here. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that Narendra Modi’s hoarding shared in the post is a morphed one.
Seeing that petrol pumps are being threatened to put up a picture of Modiji, I suggest them to use the following picture – pic.twitter.com/xHiOzwJCtb
To sum it up, a morphed photo is being shared as a hoarding against the Narendra Modi led BJP Government

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/03/Anti-Narendra-Modi-flex-on-the-road-Claim.jpg