URL: https://factly.in/morphed-image-shared-as-shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-serving-tea-to-pm-modi
Morphed image shared as Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut serving tea to PM Modi - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-06-15T15:06:13+00:00
A video accompanying a social media post is being widely shared online claiming that Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut who criticises PM Modi for having been a tea seller was serving tea to Prime Minister Modi, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, and others. Let us fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut serving tea to PM Narendra Modi.
Fact: This video is edited and a morphed image of Sanjay Raut making tea was added to make it look like he was making tea for PM Modi. The original visuals were taken during a meeting between Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, and Minister Ashok Chavan with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on 08 June 2021. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When reverse image search was done on the screenshots of the video, a news article was found with a similar image. This news article says that on 08 June 2021, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his 7 Lok Kalyan Marg residence in New Delhi. According to the news article, accompanied by state finance minister Ajit Pawar and PWD Minister Ashok Chavan, Thackeray discussed 12 subjects with Modi for close to an hour. Other news articles about this meeting can be seen here, here, and here. None of the images in the news articles had Sanjay Raut.
Uddhav Thackeray along with Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Minister Ashok Chavan had met with Prime Minister Narendra Modi according to a Twitter post from the official account of Chief Minister of Maharashtra. Even in this post, there is no mention of Sanjay Raut.
CM Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray met with the Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today along with Deputy CM Ajit Pawar & Minister Ashok Chavan. pic.twitter.com/TLbTrwEKeH
When the screenshots of the video are taken and compared, it can be seen that they are morphed. It is clear that tea glasses were added to the real image of the meeting between Modi and Uddhav Thackeray.
A news article published on 26 March 2020 where Sanjay Raut was seen playing harmonium is morphed and added to the video in the post. Another article about this incident can be seen here.
To sum it up, morphed visuals are being shared as Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut is serving tea to PM Modi.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/06/sanjayrauteng_post.jpg