URL: https://factly.in/morphed-image-shared-as-hardik-patel-talking-about-his-plan-to-discredit-modi-by-spreading-violence
Morphed image shared as Hardik Patel talking about his plan to discredit Modi by spreading violence - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-06-10T13:29:45+00:00
A news clip purportedly of ‘Dainik Jagran’ is shared on social media claiming that Hardik Patel has made the statement – ‘The plan was to discredit Modi by spreading violence across the country, Kejriwal used to arrange money from Ford Foundation’. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Dainik Jagran’s article on Hardik Patel stating the plan to discredit Modi by spreading violence in the country, and Kejriwal’s support to fund this through the Ford Foundation
Fact: Hardik Patel hasn’t made any such statement. The ‘Dainik Jagran’ epaper clip from 2013 is morphed and edited with a different title. The original title mentions about 150 Mulsim families accepting the Hindu religion. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When searched on the internet about the news mentioned in the post, it is found that this image of Dainik Jargarn’s article was in circulation since 2015 and was found as a text post on 5 November 2015.
When we observe the headline carefully, one can notice that it is not in proper alignment with the borders and looks to be edited. When searched if Hardik Patel ever made such a statement about spreading violence in the country to discredit Modi, no relevant results were found. Also, the content in the article talks about the religious conversion of 150 Muslim families in the presence of Badrinath Dham’s Shankaracharya. Hence the image looks to be an edited one.
The image shared also has an epaper URL of Dainik Jagaran’s article, which is currently not available. But when searched with relevant keywords from the content and by applying time filter, search results with the same URL and content, but with a different headline were found. The image found on ‘World Hindu News’ has the headline ‘150 मुस्लिम परिवार हिंदू धर्म में शामिल’. On further search, the original story published by Dainik Jagaran was also found.
Based on the above findings, it is clear that the headline of an article published by Dainik Jagran on 24 December 2013, about conversion of 150 Muslim families into Hindu religion, is edited to claim that Hardik Patel accepting his plan to discredit Modi by spreading violence in the country, and Kejriwal’s support to fund this through the Ford Foundation.
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/06/Hardik-Patel-Kejriwals-plan-FB-post.jpg