URL: https://factly.in/morphed-photo-shared-as-asaduddin-owaisi-meeting-with-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat
Morphed photo shared as Asaduddin Owaisi meeting RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-12-23T11:14:55+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it as a recent picture of AIMIM party President Asaduddin Owaisi meeting RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat at an event. This picture shows Asaduddin Owaisi sitting beside Mohan Bhagwat. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of AIMIM party President Asaduddin Owaisi sitting alongside RSS President Mohan Bhagwat.Fact: The photo shared in the post is a morphed one. The original picture shows Mohan Bhagwat sitting beside Samajwadi Party leader Mulayam Singh Yadav, not AIMIM Chief Asaduddin Owaisi. This photo was taken when Mohan Bhagwat and Mulayam Singh Yadav attended an event hosted in the official residence of Vice President of India,  Venkaiah Naidu. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in an article published by ‘The Times of India’ news website on 22 December 2021. The original picture shared in the article shows RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat sitting beside Samajwadi Party leader Mulayam Singh Yadav, not AIMIM Chief Asaduddin Owaisi. The description of the photo states, “Union MoS for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal greets RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat as MP Mulayam Singh Yadav looks on, during Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu’s granddaughter’s Reception in New Delhi”.
Reporting the same, several news websites have shared the original picture in their articles. They can be seen here, here, and here. Union Minister Arjun Ram Meghwal too had shared this photo on his official Twitter handle.
राष्ट्रीय स्वयंसेवक संघ के परम पूज्य सरसंघचालक मा. @DrMohanBhagwat जी से आज जन्मदिवस के अवसर पर आत्मीय भेंट करके आशीर्वाद लिया।आपका स्नेह, सहयोग, मार्गदर्शन, सदैव कर्तव्य पथ पर चलते हुए माँ भारती की निरंतर सेवा करने की प्रेरणा देता है। pic.twitter.com/Df01oETcKM
This photo was captured on 20 December 2021, when Mohan Bhagwat and Mulayam Singh Yadav were having a chat during an event hosted in the official residence of Vice President of India, Venkaiah Naidu.
To sum it up, a morphed picture is falsely shared as recent visuals of AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi meeting the RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/12/Asaduddin-Owaisi-meeting-with-Mohan-Bhagavat-claim.jpg