URL: https://factly.in/morphed-photo-shared-as-rahul-gandhi-consuming-alcohol-and-non-veg-food
Morphed photo shared as Rahul Gandhi consuming alcohol and non-veg food during Bharat Jodo Yatra - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-01-10T07:58:07+00:00
A picture of Rahul Gandhi eating food is being shared on social media. In what seems like a hotel, Rahul Gandhi can be seen picking up food from a place while some non-vegetarian items and a glass filled with a beverage that looks like alcohol lies on the table. Let’s fact-check this claim through this article.
Claim: A photo of Rahul Gandhi consuming alcohol and non-veg food during Bharat Jodo Yatra
Fact: The viral photo is a morphed version of the original photo which does not the alcohol glass. The plate containing non-veg items is actually a plate full of nuts. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
In the comments section below the viral post, a user named Jaat Hariom Singh Sheoran posted a photo which resembles the viral photo except that it does not have non-veg and alcoholic beverage. He claims this as the original photo.
Taking this as a hint, we performed a basic keyword search on Google to learn more about this photo. This search led us to an article published by the ‘TimesNowNews’ titled ‘Nuts, makhanas, seeds: Decoding Rahul Gandhi’s nutritious diet during his 3,500km walk across the country.’ This article about the diet and fitness routine of Rahul Gandhi mentions a photo tweeted by a Journalist named ‘Paranjoy Guha Thakurta.’ Mr Paranjoy met Rahul Gandhi, who is in Haryana participating in his Bharat Jodo Yatra and tweeted a picture of Rahul Gandhi eating food. The photo resembles the one in the viral post.
This photo is morphed and is being shared in a viral post. In the original picture, the glass in front of Mr Gandhi contains a beverage that looks either like tea or coffee. There is no non-veg item on the plate in front of him. Instead, it contains some nuts. You can see the difference between the fake and original photos in the collage below.
To sum up, this photo of Rahul Gandhi having alcohol and non-veg food is morphed.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/01/RAGA-Alcohol-and-Non-Veg-Morphed-image-01.jpg