URL: https://factly.in/morphed-photo-shared-as-picture-of-subhash-chandra-bose-reading-the-news-of-his-death
Morphed photo shared as picture of Subhash Chandra Bose reading the news of his death - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-09-27T13:35:09+00:00
An image is being shared on social media claiming it as an old picture of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose reading the news article reporting his death in a plane accident. This post claims that the photo was shot on 23 April 1945. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose reading the news of his death in a plane.
Fact: The image shared in the post is an edited one. In the original photo, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose was not seen reading the news of his death in a plane crash. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found tweeted by the “Conundrum: Subhas Bose’s Life after Death” author, Anuj Dhar on 27 May 2018. But in the original photo, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose was not seen reading the news of his death in a plane crash. Anuj Dhar shared this photo by mentioning it as the visuals of Subhash Chandra Bose reading Japan’s oldest English-language newspaper, Nippon Times (now the Japan Times). On observing carefully, we could see the ‘Nippon Times’ name on the newspaper in the image.
Subhas Chandra Bose reading Nippon Times (now The Japan Times), Japan's largest and oldest English-language daily newspaper @japantimes pic.twitter.com/6A7YMXGEkW
The image shared in the post shows Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose reading a news article titled, “Mr. Subhash Chandra Bose Dead”. The Kolkata-based ‘Hindustan Standard’ newspaper had published this news article in August 1945. Anuj Dhar tweeted this edited version of the image on 18 August 2019 and clarified it as a reimagination picture by @BiplabC2. @BiplabC2 handle is currently suspended from Twitter.
To sum up, a morphed photo is being shared as an old image of Subhash Chandra Bose reading the news of his death.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/09/Subhash-Chandra-Bose-reading-his-death-story-Claim.jpg