URL: https://factly.in/morphed-photo-shared-as-visuals-of-shahrukh-khan-wearing-a-t-shirt-quoting-vote-for-mim
Morphed photo shared as visuals of Shahrukh Khan wearing a T-Shirt with ‘Vote for MIM’ quote - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-11-12T13:02:54+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it as visuals of Shahrukh wearing a T-Shirt quoting ‘Vote for MIM’ with a Kite symbol printed on it. This post claims it as evidence of Shahrukh Khan’s support to the ‘AIMIM’ and its president Asaduddin Owaisi. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of Shahrukh Khan wearing a ‘Vote for MIM’ T-Shirt.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is a morphed one. The original photo shows Shahrukh Khan wearing a plain white T-Shirt. This photo was captured in September 2009, when Shahrukh Khan visited Akshay Kumar on the sets of his film, Blue. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found published on the ‘Getty’ Images website. The description of the photo states, “Actor Shah Rukh Khan arrives to meet Akshay Kumar on the sets of his film Blue in Mumbai on Friday, September 18, 2009”. The original photo shows Shahrukh Khan wearing a plain white T-Shirt. The image was credited to the ‘India Today’ news reporter Yogen Shah.
When we searched for more sources using these keywords, we found similar photos of Shahrukh Khan on several news websites including on the ‘India Today’ website. They can be seen here, here, and here. All these news websites reported that the photo was captured when Shahrukh Khan went to visit Akshay Kumar on the sets of his film, Blue. The ‘Hindustan Times’ news website had published an article in 2018, confirming that the photo showing Shahrukh Khan in the ‘Vote for MIM’ quoted t-shirt is a morphed one.
To sum it up, a morphed photo is falsely shared as visuals of Shahrukh Khan wearing a T-Shirt that says ‘Vote for MIM’.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/11/Shahrukh-Khan-with-a-Vote-for-MIM-quoted-t-shirt-Claim.jpg