URL: https://factly.in/morphed-photo-shared-as-modi-feasting-while-people-are-starving
Morphed photo shared as Modi feasting while people are starving - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-03-13T10:21:13+00:00
A photo of Modi having a feast was juxtaposed with a photo of a woman and child, and is being shared on social media to give the impression that, while people are starving in the country, the prime minister is having a feast. Let’s try to analyze the extent of truth in this post.
Claim: Prime minister Narendra Modi having feast while others starve.
Fact: A photo of Narendra Modi having food at an annual Diwali lunch party organized by him for journalists in 2008 is photoshopped and used in the post.  This lunch was organized in Gandhinagar, Gujarat on 12 November 2008, when he was the Chief Minister of Gujarat. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.   
When the photo of Modi having a feast was searched on Google using reverse image technique, an original photo related to it was found on ‘Timescontent.com‘. Based on that information, it is understood that the photo was captured during the annual Diwali lunch party for journalists organised by Modi on 12 November 2008 in Gandhinagar when he was the Chief Minister of Gujarat. But, someone photoshopped the image related to it as Modi was having a feast.
On reverse searching the portion of the photo with food, it is found that the dishes represent a Lebanese Mezze and is prepared by LebaneseChef Mohammad Farran. The image was posted by ‘We Are Lebanon’ group on their Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest accounts.
When the image of the woman with a child is reverse searched, it is found that the image is from Somalia and represents a mother holding her starving child and is captured on 01 August 1992.
To summarize, a morphed photo is shared as Modi feasting while people in the country are starving.
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/03/Modi-Feasting-Post.png