URL: https://factly.in/morphed-image-shared-as-time-magazine-cover-featuring-pm-modi-with-hitler-moustache
Morphed image shared as TIME magazine cover featuring PM Modi with Hitler moustache - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-06-24T14:02:17+00:00
A purported image of a ‘TIME’ magazine cover page featuring PM Narendra Modi with a Hitler Moustache is being shared on social media claiming through a post. Let us fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Image of TIME magazine featuring Narendra Modi with Hitler moustache.
Fact: There has been no issue released recently by the TIME magazine that has Prime Minister Narendra Modi as its cover. A similar artwork of Vladimir Putin with a Hitler moustache was also falsely shared as a TIME magazine cover. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When we searched for the latest front cover of TIME Magazine, a photo was found retweeted by official twitter handle of TIME magazine. We could not find the same photo of PM Modi featuring Hitler moustache.
This week's @TIME cover for our Oceans Issue. It's a sculpture made of recycled plastic garbage bags by @HughKretschmer. Read my story on our climate covers and Hugh's amazing art at https://t.co/HXLK9xZnH9 And for more about the ocean's untapped power: https://t.co/S8M2oZCOvI pic.twitter.com/MxjRf0w0XA
A simple Google search on ‘TIME magazine covers’, took us to the Vault, the TIME magazine’s online archive where all the covers published by the magazine are stored. When one looks for the TIME magazine covers for the year 2022, none of them featured the cover of Narendra Modi with a Hitler moustache.
Earlier, a similar artwork of Vladimir Putin with a Hitler moustache was made viral on social media as a TIME magazine cover; Factly had written an article debunking the same. Factly had written couple of fact-check articles (here and here), when TIME magazine covers are deliberately used to defame PM Modi.
My TIME artwork has gone viral – so I thought it would be appropriate for me to write a little about it. The image is one out of a sequence of three I created on the day Russia invaded Ukraine. I felt the official cover by TIME was uninspired and lacked conviction. pic.twitter.com/m5P5rorqgt
To sum it up, morphed image shared as TIME magazine cover featuring PM Narendra Modi with Hitler moustache.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/06/Modi-Featured-With-Hitler-Moustache-Time-Magazine_post.jpg