URL: https://factly.in/morphed-photo-from-pakistan-shared-as-modis-statue-at-narendra-modi-chowk
Morphed photo from Pakistan shared as Modi’s statue at ‘Narendra Modi Chowk’ - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-03-04T14:26:52+00:00
An image of a water fountain located at a city square is being shared on social media claiming it as visuals of a chowk named after PM Narendra Modi. The photo shows a giant kettle pouring water on a statue of Narendra Modi. Also, a hoarding of ‘Narendra Modi Chowk’ is visible in the photo. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Fountain of PM Modi displayed at ‘Narendra Modi chowk’ in India.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is an edited one. This fountain with a giant kettle is located at the station chowk in Faisalabad, Pakistan. This fountain image is edited to include the photo of Narendra Modi’s marble statue available on the India Mart website. Also, “Narendra Modi Chowk” hoarding from a town square in Bihar is added to this photo. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search, a similar photo of the water fountain was found in an article published by a Pakistani news website. In the original photo, one can notice a kettle and cup installation. This fountain is located at the station chowk located in Faisalabad city of Pakistan. Reporting the same, another Pakistan news website published an article including the same image. 
The water fountain image shared in the post can also be found in Google Maps. The Faisalabad station chowk location can also be seen in Google Earth view. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the fountain shown in the post is from Faisalabad city in Pakistan.
On reverse image search of the cropped Narendra Modi statue in the post, we found the same image of Narendra Modi statue on the e-comMerce website ‘India Mart’. It is mentioned as a 3-foot Marble Narendra Modi statue which is available for purchase at 65,000 rupees.
When we searched for the Narendra Modi Chowk in India using the keywords, a similar image of the ‘Narendra Modi Chowk’ hoarding was found in an article published by NDTV.  This article reported that in 2018, a town square in Bihar Dharbanga district was named after PM Narendra Modi.
To sum it up, an edited photo of a city square in Pakistan is being shared as Modi’s statue at ‘Narendra Modi Chowk’

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/03/Fountain-loated-at-Narendra-Modi-chowk-in-India-Claim.jpg