URL: https://factly.in/morphed-image-shared-as-visuals-of-mamata-banerjee-suddenly-walking-away-from-her-wheelchair
Morphed image shared as visuals of Mamata Banerjee suddenly walking away from her wheelchair - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-03-17T08:36:24+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it as visuals of injured Mamata Banerjee suddenly standing up and walking away from her wheelchair. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was injured during the election campaign held in Nandigram on 10 March 2021.  Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of Mamata Banerjee suddenly getting up and walking away from her wheelchair.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is an edited one. The original photo shows West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee coming out of the hospital in a wheelchair. This photo was captured when Mamata Banerjee was discharged from the SSKM Hospital on 12 March 2021. This morphed photo was created by a photo editor named Krishna. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, we found out that the photo was captured when Mamata Banerjee was discharged from the SSKM hospital in Kolkata on 12 March 2021. In the original photo, Mamata Banerjee was coming out of the hospital in a wheelchair. This original photo was published in several news articles. They can be seen here and here. Also, the photo shared in the post shows Mamata Banerjee with no spectacles, while she actually wore them during her discharge.
This morphed photo was created by a photo editor named Krishna. Krishna shared this edited image on his Twitter handle on 14 March 2021.
West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress Party leader Mamata Banerjee was admitted to the  SSKM hospital on 10 March 2021 after she was injured during a religious event held in Nandigram. Mamata Banerjee and the Trinamool Congress party leaders alleged it as a deliberate attack planned by a few unknown persons. BJP and Congress called this attack a tactic to gain sympathy before the elections. The Election Commission ruled out the allegations of a pre-meditated attack on West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee.
To sum it up, an edited image is falsely shared as visuals of injured Mamata Banerjee suddenly getting up and walking away from her wheelchair.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/03/Mamata-Benerjee-walking-away-from-her-wheel-chair-Claim.jpg