URL: https://factly.in/morphed-photo-shared-as-sonu-sood-holding-a-placard-in-support-of-rjd-leader-tejaswi-yadav
Morphed photo shared as Sonu Sood holding a placard in support of RJD leader Tejaswi Yadav - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-11-03T13:07:55+00:00
A post is being shared on social media claiming that Bollywood actor Sonu Sood advised the people of Bihar to vote for RJD party and Tejaswi Yadav for the development of Bihar. A photo of Sonu Sood holding the placard in support of RJD leader Tejaswi Yadav is shared in the post. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Sonu Sood holding a placard in support of RJD leader Tejaswi Yadav.
Fact: Photo shared in the post is a morphed one. In the original photo, Sonu Sood was seen holding a painting made by the Jamshedpur artist Arjun Das on Sonu Sood. Sonu Sood did not take any public stance in support of any political party in 2020 Bihar Assembly elections. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the original photo was found in the official Facebook page of Jamshedpur Mirror news portal. It is mentioned in the post that Jamshedpur artist Arjun Das presented this painting to the Bollywood actor Sonu Sood on ‘19 October 2020’. Portraying Sonu Sood’s helping hand towards the migrant workers during the lockdown, Arjun Das made this painting. Knowing Arjun Das’s works through Twitter, Sonu Sood called Arjun Das to Mumbai and received the painting.
On searching for other sources using these keywords, a tweet of Arjun Das sharing the video of his meeting with Sonu Sood was found on Twitter. In the tweet, he mentioned that Sonu Sood got him to Mumbai to receive the painting made. ‘Viral Bollywood’ YouTube channel also shared this video of Sonu Sood meeting Jamshedpur artist Arjun Das.
सोनू भाई हमें मुम्बई बुलाने और हम जमशेदपुर के कलाकारों को सम्मान देने के लिये बहुत बहुत धन्यवाद । जोहार 🙏🙏💐💐💐💐Artist Arjun das pic.twitter.com/aRwrsxkzfS
Sonu Sood in his tweet asked people of Bihar to vote in these elections not only through Ballot boxes but also with the brain. He never took a public stance in support of any party in the 2020 Bihar elections.
जिस दिन हमारे बिहारी भाइयों को घर छोड़ कर दूसरे राज्य नहीं जाना पड़ेगा। जिस दिन दूसरे राज्य के लोग बिहार में काम ढूँढने आएँगे। उस दिन देश की जीत होगी। वोट के लिए बटन उँगली से नहीं दिमाग़ से लगाना 🙏#biharelections
To sum it up, a morphed photo is falsely shared as Sonu Sood supporting RJD leader Tejawi Yadav.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/11/Sonu-Sood-in-support-of-RJD-leader-Tejaswi-Yadav-Claim.jpg