URL: https://factly.in/morphed-image-falsely-shared-as-mukesh-ambani-picture-inside-pm-modi-office
Morphed image falsely shared as Mukesh Ambani's picture inside PM Modi's office - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-03-10T12:12:36+00:00
An image showing Mukesh Ambani’s picture hanging on the wall at PM Narendra Modi’s office is being shared on social media claiming it as proof of Narendra Modi being a slave of the Ambani family. This photo shows Narendra Modi meeting with former Indian cricketer Sachin Tendulkar at his office. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Mukesh Ambani’s photo on PM Narendra Modi’s office wall.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is morphed. The original photo actually shows scenery displayed on the wall inside PM Modi’s office. This photo was taken on 19 May 2017 during Sachin Tendulkar’s meeting with PM Narendra Modi. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in the ‘India TV’ article published on 19 May 2017. The original photo shows a scenery picture hanging on a wall inside PM Narendra Modi’s office. This photo was taken on 19 May 2017 during Sachin Tendulkar’s meeting with PM Modi at his office. Sachin Tendulkar met PM Narendra Modi to brief him on the movie ‘Sachin: A Billion Dreams’. The original photo was also found to be published by several other news articles. They can be seen here and here.
PM Narendra Modi and Sachin Tendulkar shared the photos of their meeting on their official Twitter handles. Those tweets can be seen here and here. Picture of Mukesh Ambani was not found in these tweets.
Had a very good meeting with @sachin_rt. His life journey & accomplishments make every Indian proud & inspire 1.25 billion people. pic.twitter.com/qqUYB3qEez
To sum it up, a morphed image is being falsely portrayed Mukesh Ambani’s photo inside the PM Narendra Modi’s office.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/03/Mukesh-Ambani-photo-at-PM-Narendra-Modi-Office-Claim.jpg