URL: https://factly.in/morphed-photo-shared-as-pop-singer-rihanna-posing-with-the-pakistan-national-flag
Morphed photo shared as pop singer Rihanna posing with the Pakistan National flag - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-02-04T13:54:14+00:00
A photo of the pop singer Rihanna purportedly posing with the Pakistan National flag is being shared on social media. In the wake of Rihanna’s recent tweet supporting the farmers’ protest against the new farm laws, this photo is going viral on social media. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of the pop singer Rihanna posing with Pakistan National flag.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is an edited one. In the original photo, Rihanna has seen posing with the West Indies National flag. This photo was shot while Rihanna was cheering for the West Indies cricket team at an ICC Cricket World Cup 2019 match in England. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the original photo is found in an article published by ‘SAMAA’ sports channel on 02 July 2019. In the original photo, Pop Singer Rihanna was seen posing with the West Indies National flag. It is reported that singer Rihanna attended an ICC World Cup 2019 fixture to cheer the West Indies Cricket team. Rihanna attended the West Indies vs Sri Lanka match held at Chester-Le-Street in England on 01 July 2019. The original photo of Rihanna posing with the West Indian flag is also shared in the New Indian Express website gallery article published on 02 July 2019.
The ICC also posted this photo on their official Twitter handle. West Indies cricket board also shared pictures of Rihanna cheering the West Indies cricket team from the stands. News articles and videos published on Rihanna’s visit to the World Cup match in England can be seen here and here. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the photo shared in the post is an edited one.
Look who's at #SLvWI to Rally 'round the West Indies! Watch out for @rihanna's new single, Shut Up And Cover Drive 😉🎶 #CWC19 | #MenInMaroon pic.twitter.com/cou1V0P7Zj
To sum it up, an edited photo of Rihanna posing with the Pakistan National flag is being shared in the wake of her tweet about farmers’ protests.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/02/Rihanna-posing-with-Pakistan-Flag-Claim.jpg