URL: https://factly.in/morphed-photo-shared-as-picture-of-ramdev-beef-biryani-recipe-mix-sold-by-patanjali-ayurvedic-limited
Morphed photo shared as picture of 'Ramdev Beef Biryani' recipe mix sold by Patanjali Ayurvedic Limited - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-09-21T03:38:51+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it is a picture of beef biryani recipe mix product sold to Muslims by the Patanjali Ayurvedic Limited co-founder and yoga guru, Ramdev Baba. The photo shows a beef biryani recipe mix package with Ramdev and Patanjali logos on it. Let’s verify the claim made by the post.
Claim: Photo of Ramdev Beef Biryani Recipe mix product sold by Patanjali Ayurvedic Limited.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is a morphed one. The original photo shows the beef biryani recipe mix product of National Foods Limited, a Pakistan-based multinational food products company. Patanjali Ayurvedic Limited does not sell any beef biryani recipe on their online e-commerce website. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When we searched to check whether Patanjali Ayurvedic Limited was selling any such beef biryani recipe mix on Patanjali’s official e-commerce website, we could not find any such product on their website. If Patanjali had started selling any such beef product, several news websites would have reported that information.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo showing the same beef recipe product was found on the e-commerce website of National Foods Limited, a Pakistan-based multinational food products company. National Foods Limited described it as a 39 grams Beef Biryani recipe mix product manufactured by the National Foods Limited company. A description below the product states, “National Beef Biryani Recipe Mix is combination for spicy rice with cooked beef, specially made by a panel of experts, using aromatic spices and the finest ingredients in exactly the right measure. It will enable you to cook meal with ease”. ‘
On observing the original picture carefully, it can be concluded that the logos of Ramdev and Patanjali were digitally added to the original photo of National Foods Limited’s beef product in place of the ‘National’ logo. A few other recipe products sold by the National Foods Limited can be seen here, here and here.
To sum it up, a morphed photo is being shared as a picture of Ramdev Beef Biryani recipe mix product sold by Patanjali Ayurvedic Limited.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/09/Ramdev-Baba-Beef-Biryani-recipe-mix-Claim.jpg