URL: https://factly.in/morphed-photo-shared-as-narendra-modi-holding-population-control-bill-2021
Morphed Photo shared as Narendra Modi Holding Population Control Bill 2021 - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-01-08T12:47:50+00:00
A photo of Prime Minister Narendra Modi holding a file is being shared on social media claiming that Government of India is now planning for a new Population control legislation in 2021. In the photo, we can see ‘जनसंख्या नियंत्रण कानून 2021’ written on the file held by PM Modi. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of PM Narendra Modi holding the new population control legislation file.
Fact: Photo shared in the post is an edited one. In the original image, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was seen holding a file without any text on the cover. This original photo is shared by the official social media pages of Narendra Modi. There is no authentic information to confirm the speculation of a new population control legislation in 2021. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, we found the original image on the official social media handles of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In the original photo, Prime Minister was seen holding a green file with no text the cover page. PM Modi shared this photo on his Facebook and Instagram pages on ‘26 December 2020’. In the description of the photo, PM Modi mentioned it as the picture of him while leaving for a programme to meet the people of Jammu and Kashmir.
A post shared by Narendra Modi (@narendramodi)
On 26 December 2020, Narendra Modi launched Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY Sehat scheme in Jammu and Kashmir through video conference. Media reports about this programme can be seen here and here. ‘Zee News’ and ‘Jansatta’ news websites shared the original photo in their articles published on 01 January 2020. They can be seen here and here.  
Few news websites published articles speculating about a population control legislation when few BJP MPs demanded the same in 2020. They can be read here and here. But, there is no authentic information to confirm this speculation of a new population control legislation.
To sum it up, a morphed image is falsely shared as of PM Modi holding a copy of the new population control legislation 2021.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/01/PM-Modi-holding-new-Population-control-bill-2021-Claim.jpg