URL: https://factly.in/morphed-image-shared-as-billboard-stating-journalist-anjana-kashyap-as-unofficial-spokesperson-of-bjp
Morphed image shared as billboard stating journalist Anjana Kashyap as unofficial spokesperson of BJP - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-10-11T11:34:08+00:00
An image of a billboard displaying the picture of News Anchor Anjana Om Kashyap along with the text “I am not Journalist. I’m Unofficial Spokesperson of BJP” is being widely shared on social media claiming that someone has setup this poster at an overbridge in Delhi. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Billboard displayed at an overbridge in Delhi states journalist Anjana Kashyap is an unofficial spokesperson of BJP.
Fact: The text on the billboard is altered. The text on original billboard image shared by India Today in 2017 reads, “ANJANA, REACHED AND WAITING”. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
We did a reverse image search and found that the same image has been viral since 2019. When Anjana allegedly insulted Rahul Gandhi in 2019, this billboard image went viral calling her the “Unofficial spokesperson of BJP”. Some parody accounts also shared this image later. Some of the posts can be seen here and here
#anjanaommodiRetweet for this pic.twitter.com/iyfAZJ3UfZ
Further research led us to a Twitter post by India Today on 01 May 2017. The post shows a billboard ad featuring Anjana.
News does not wait. It breaks.And whenever it does, it finds us ready. No buffering here. Only connecting. #ReachedAndWaiting pic.twitter.com/qSyWuxpvAW
By comparing the two images, it is evident that the text on this billboard is altered.
Similarly, the same billboard image is used to mock other media personalities as well. They can be seen here and here
To sum it up, image of a billboard displaying Anjana Om Kashyap with the text “I am not Journalist. I’m Unofficial Spokesperson of BJP” is a morphed one.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/10/anjana-poster-viral-image.png