URL: https://factly.in/most-of-these-photos-of-monuments-in-various-countries-with-indian-tricolours-are-edited
Most of these photos of monuments in various countries with Indian tricolour are edited - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-08-16T08:25:14+00:00
A group of photos are being widely shared on social media with the following claim – “The whole World is celebrating 75th India Independence Day. Wonderful Tricolor exhibited in their best monument of various countries”. These photos are being shared in the context of India completing its 75 years of Independence. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photos of monuments in various counties with Indian tricolour on the occasion of 75 years of Indian Independence.
Fact: Most of the posted photos are edited ones. The edited photos were originally posted by the ‘FilterCopy’ in 2017 with the following disclaimer on each photo – “this is an edited picture”. A couple of photos in the post are real photos but they are old. While it is true that some monuments in other countries like Australia and Canada were lit up in Indian tricolour on the occasion of 75 years of Indian Independence, the posted photos are not related to them. Hence the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
When the posted photos were run through Google Reverse Image Search, most of them were found in a post published by the ‘FilterCopy’ in 2017. In the post, the ‘FilterCopy’ has the following description – “If famous monuments and buildings were lit up in the Indian tri-colours, here’s what they would look like!”. Also, on each photo posted by the ‘FilterCopy’, there is a disclaimer saying – “this is an edited picture”. The original versions of some of those photos can be seen here, here, and here. So, most of the posted photos are edited.
A couple of photos in the post are real photos but they are old. The old posts related to them can be seen here and here.
While it is true that some monuments in other countries like Australia and Canada were lit up in Indian tricolour on the occasion of 75 years of Indian Independence, the posted photos are not related to them. Some of the actual photos can be seen here, here, and here.
To sum it up, most of these photos of monuments in various countries with Indian tricolours are edited.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/08/Tricolour-on-various-monuments-FB-Post-850x1024.jpg