URL: https://factly.in/mrophed-photo-shared-as-congress-workers-offering-cake-to-the-mia-khalifa
Morphed photo shared as Congress workers offering cake to Mia Khalifa - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-02-08T09:56:07+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it as the picture of Congress party workers offering cake to the poster of adult film actress Mia Khalifa. In the wake of Mia Khalifa’s tweets supporting the ongoing farmers’ protests in India, this post was shared on social media. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of Congress party workers offering cake to Mia Khalifa poster.
Fact:  The photo shared in the post is an edited one. In the original photo, Congress workers were offering cake to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s poster. This photo was captured when Congress party workers were celebrating Rahul Gandhi’s 37th birthday in New Delhi on 19 June 2007. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, we found the original version of this photo in ‘Getty’ image sharing website. In the original photo, Congress workers were offering cake to a poster of Rahul Gandhi, not to the poster of adult actress Mia Khalifa.  In the description of the photo, it is mentioned that the Indian Youth Congress supporters cut a huge birthday cake in New Delhi, during the 37th birthday celebrations of Rahul Gandhi on 19 June 2007. This photo was credited to the AFP reporter Raveendran.
The original photo was also shared in ‘The Times of India’ news  article published on 19 June 2007. This article reported that the supporters of Indian Youth Congress cut a huge cake during the 37th birthday celebrations of Rahul Gandhi on 19 June 2007. From all these pieces of evidence, it is concluded that the photo shared in the post is an edited one.
To sum it up, an edited photo is shared as the picture of Congress workers offering cake to Mia Khalifa’s poster.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/02/Congress-workers-offering-cake-to-Mia-Khalifa-poster-Claim.jpg