URL: https://factly.in/multiple-old-photos-are-being-shared-in-the-context-of-recent-farmers-protest-in-delhi
Multiple old photos are being shared in the context of recent farmers’ protest in Delhi - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-12-01T14:02:20+00:00
A lot of images are being shared in the context of recent protests by farmers in Delhi against the new agricultural laws brought by the Central Government. Let’s fact-check the photos being shared on social media.
Claim: Photos related to recent farmers’ protest in Delhi.
Fact: The posted photos are old. They are not related to recent farmers’ protest in Delhi. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Photo 1: (archived)
When the photo was run through Google Reverse Image Search, the same photo was found to be posted by a user on Facebook in September 2017. Multiple news agencies have also published a similar photo in September 2017 in relation to the farmer protests in Rajasthan. Those news articles can be read here, here, and here. CPI(M) has tweeted the same photo on 5 September 2017 with the description – ‘Farmers led by AIKS in Rajasthan demand #loanwaiver, pension schemes & greater allocation for MNREGA’. Sitaram Yechury has also tweeted the same photo in September 2017. So, the photo is not related to the recent farmers’ protest in Delhi.
Photo 2: (archived)
The same photo was found to be tweeted by Mumbai Live (on the posted photo –  a watermark of ‘MumbaiLive.com’ can be seen) in March 2018 with the description – “About 25,000 farmers have been marching to towards #Mumbai to protest against the anti-farmer policies. They have gathered at the Eastern Expressway Highway, opposite Viviana mall in #Thane.” Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan has also tweeted the same photo in 2018. More details regarding the context of the photo can be read here.
About 25,000 farmers have been marching to towards #Mumbai to protest against the anti-farmer policies. They have gathered at the Eastern Expressway Highway, opposite Viviana mall in #Thane. pic.twitter.com/ROlvkePsjH
Photo 3: (archived)
This photo was found to being shared on the internet at least since September 2016. Other old posts can be found here and here. While the exact details regarding the photo were not found, it can be concluded that it is not related to recent farmers’ protest.
Photo 4: (archived)
The ‘Hindustan Times’ has published an article in February 2017 with the same photo. The description of the photo reads – ‘Jat women protesters on way to Jassia village during their agitation for reservation in Rohtak. (PTI photo)’. The same photo can be also found on the ‘Outlook’ website.
While the posted photos are old, thousands of farmers are protesting in Delhi currently and the visuals related to the recent farmers’ protest can be seen here.
To sum it up, multiple old photos are being shared in the context of recent farmers’ protest in Delhi.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/12/Delhi-Farmers-Protest-Photos-FB-Post-1.jpg