URL: https://factly.in/no-modi-was-not-having-lunch-with-imran-khan-its-a-photoshopped-image
No, Modi was not having lunch with Imran Khan. It’s a photoshopped image - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-04-17T10:59:19+00:00
An image is being shared on Facebook by some users claiming that Narendra Modi was sitting with Imran Khan (Prime Minister of Pakistan) on the dining table. Let’s try to check the authenticity of the image posted.
Claim:  Modi, wearing a Muslim skull cap, was seen sitting beside Imran Khan on the dining table. Fact: The image has been photoshopped. In the original picture, Imran Khan’s wife can be seen sitting beside him. Also, a Muslim skull cap has been placed over the picture of Modi. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE. 

When the image posted on Facebook is cropped (keeping only Imran Khan) and ran through Yandex Reverse Image search, the original picture can be found in the search results. In the original picture, beside Imran Khan, his wife Reham Khan can be found. In the edited photo, Modi’s picture has been placed in her place to misguide people.
When the Modi’s portion in the edited photo is cropped and ran through Yandex Reverse Image search, the original photo from where the Modi’s portion was taken can be found in the search results. The original picture of Modi was taken in 2015 while having lunch in the Parliament canteen. In the picture, it can be found that Modi was not wearing any skull cap. So, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Finally, Modi
was not having lunch with Imran Khan. It’s a photoshopped image.

Thanks to show me right thing and Im perssonally love to know truth can u please check many thing in india spreading wrong against human and religion specially with islam and muslim by social media  no body replies and give any fact check report. Hundreds of conspiracy still exist and no result and solution. By the way i love to say i like ur fact check and i would like to request u to please be honest for every body and for evey thing
We’re very happy to be contributing in this cause and will try to do our honest best in bringing out fake news. We would like to honour your involvement with us. Could you please send us your email address to hi@factly.in Thanks! Team Factly

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/04/Imran-Modi-Lunch-FB-Post.jpg