URL: https://factly.in/no-this-image-does-not-show-sachin-tendulkar-taking-part-in-sindhutai-sapkaals-funeral
No, this image does not show Sachin Tendulkar taking part in Sindhutai Sapkaal’s funeral - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-01-06T13:39:15+00:00
A post accompanying an image of Sachin Tendulkar taking part in a funeral procession is being shared widely with a claim that the image shows Sachin participating in the funeral of Sindhutai Sakpal, the noted social activist, popularly known as ‘Mother of Orphans’, who passed away recently in Pune. Through this article, let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Image of Sachin Tendulkar taking part in the funeral procession of Sindhutai Sakpal.Fact: The image is three years old, when Sachin took part in funeral procession of his childhood coach Ramakant Achrekar in 2019. While Sachin offered his condolences on Sindhutai’s demise through a tweet, he did not attend her funeral procession. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.

Sindhutai Sakpal, the noted social activist known for her work in raising orphans, the abandoned, and destitute children passed away in a hospital in Pune following a heart attack. She was popularly known as ‘mother of orphans’ and was awarded Padma Sri in 2021. The last rites of Sindhutai’s were performed on Wednesday (05-01-2022) with full state honours.
Sachin Tendulkar took to Twitter to mourn her death, he tweeted in Marathi which loosely translates to ‘The news of the demise of Sindhutai Sapkaal is very sad. May God give peace to her soul’ along with a couple of images of her.
सिंधुताई सपकाळांच्या निधनाची बातमी खूप दुःखदायी आहे. ईश्वर त्यांच्या आत्म्यास शांती देवो. pic.twitter.com/kOovT2uAAc
However, there are no reports of Sachin taking part in her funeral procession. On the other hand, the viral picture dates back to 2019, when Sachin took part in the funeral procession of his childhood coach Ramakant Achrekar. The same viral image was published by Indian Express back then.
Few other visuals of Sachin taking part in his coach’s funeral can be seen here. From all these, it is evident that Sachin did not participate in Sindhutai’s funeral, while an old image is being passed with a false message.
To sum it up, this image does not show Sachin Tendulkar taking part in Sindhutai Sapkaal’s funeral.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/01/Sachin-Funeral-Sindhutai-sapkal-FB-Post.jpg