URL: https://factly.in/no-the-police-constable-in-the-photo-isnt-the-grand-daughter-of-that-old-woman
No, the police constable in the photo isn’t the grand-daughter of that old woman - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-07-26T13:28:27+00:00
On Facebook, a few users are posting a photo of a police constable and an old woman, and are claiming that the former is the grand-daughter of the latter. Let’s try to verify the authenticity of the claim made in the post.
Claim: In the photo, the police constable is the grand-daughter of the old woman.
Fact: When the woman constable (Manvi) went to a bank on her personal work, she met an ‘anonymous’ old woman. Upon knowing that she has been starving for food, Manvi took that old woman with her and provided food to eat. The photo was taken in that context. So, the claim that the police constable is the grand-daughter of the old woman is FALSE.  
When the image in the post is cropped and subjected to the Google Reverse Image Search technique, a News18 article was found. As per that article, a woman constable in Uttar Pradesh, Manvi, had gone to a bank on her personal work where she met an old woman who was struggling with her work and was also starving for food. Manvi helped the old woman with her work and also offered her food to eat.
The same story can also be seen in the ABP News video. Also, the Uttar Pradesh Police have even tweeted appreciating the generous efforts of Manvi, which can be seen here.
DGP OP Singh commended Const.Manvi,in an appreciation letter, for exemplifying highest human virtues of kindness along with her dutyShe not only empathetically comforted an hassled old lady outside a bank,helped her with her work but also offered her foodCongratulations Manvi! pic.twitter.com/HCYC8Eufb6
To conclude, the police constable in the photo isn’t the grand-daughter of that old woman.
Did you watch our new Episode of the DECODE series on Parliament?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/07/Granddaughter-Police-FB-Post.jpg