URL: https://factly.in/no-the-woman-in-the-picture-was-not-beaten-up-by-the-policemen
No, the woman in the picture was not beaten up by the Policemen - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-08-30T08:58:04+00:00
A collage with the photos of an injured woman with Policemen is being shared widely on Facebook. The claim is that the woman was beaten up by the Policemen. Let’s try to check the veracity of the claim made in the post.
Claim: The woman in the picture was beaten up by the Policemen
Fact: The woman was first groped by two men in UP’s Mainpuri, and was then beaten by a crowd for protesting against it. So, the claim that the woman was beaten up by the Policemen is FALSE.
When the image in the collage is cropped and subjected to Google reverse image search technique, a search result thus obtained lead us to an article of ‘India Times’ that carried both the images seen in the collage. As per the article, the woman was beaten up by a crowd in UP’s Mainpuri after she has spoken against two men who groped her. This incident took place in 2016. In the article, it was also reported that the woman has said to the Police, who arrived after she made a call to them, that she would shoot herself if they wouldn’t arrest the men who groped her. So, the Policemen seen in the photo might be the ones who arrived after she has made a call to the Police.
The video clip of the woman being beaten up by the crowd can be seen in the ‘Aaj Tak’ news video that reported about the incident. 
To conclude, these images are not of the
crime against a woman by the Policemen.
Did you watch our new Episode of the DECODE series on Parliament?

गलत तथ्यों पर आधारित पोस्ट को स्वतः विलोपन की व्यवस्था होनी चाहिए क्योंकि हर व्यक्ति हर बातों की सत्यता परखने की क्षमता नहीं रखते हैं।
ऐसी व्यवस्था से गलत समाचार शुरुआती स्थान पर ही समाप्त हो जाएंगे।
Really I am sorry.
Pingback: Images in the post are not related to protests against National Register of Citizens (NRC) or Citizenship Amendment Bill (CAB) - Fact Checking Tools | Factbase.us

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/08/Modis-Beti-bachao-Fb-post.jpg