URL: https://factly.in/old-unrelated-image-falsely-shared-as-rss-members-attacked-a-hindu-woman-for-offering-sehri-to-a-muslim-kashmiri-girl-recently
Old unrelated image falsely shared as ‘RSS members attacked a Hindu woman for offering Sehri to a Muslim Kashmiri girl recently’ - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-04-29T14:26:48+00:00
An image is being shared with the claim that RSS members attacked a Hindu woman who had offered Sehri (food taken in the early hours of the morning during Ramzan) to a Muslim Kashmiri girl recently. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of a Hindu woman attacked by RSS members for offering Sehri to a Muslim Kashmiri girl recently.
Fact: The photo of the injured woman was found to exist on the internet at least since February 2020. But Ramzan started in India on 23 April 2020. So, the claim made in the post is FALSE.   
On reverse image search, the first photo was found in a tweet with the timestamp ‘25 April 2020’. FACTLY was unable to confirm the time and location of the photo. But, no evidence was found for the existence of the photo before the aforementioned date.
इस हिंदू परिवार को सलाम, जो रात में उठकर, हमारी बहन को सेहरी कराता है। 😍रमजान का पहला दिन। ❤ pic.twitter.com/ni4aZn4f3j
When the photo of the injured woman was reverse searched, it was found that the photo was posted in February 2020 by many social media users. On 23 February 2020, a Twitter user has posted the photo with a description that the woman was injured by Muslims during clashes in Gujarat. But, FACTLY was not able to verify the authenticity of that information. As the photo was found to exist on the internet at least since 23 February 2020, it can be concluded that it is not related to any incident during the ongoing Ramzan, which started on 23 April 2020. Also, there is no evidence to conclude that the woman both the photos is the same.
गुजरात मे मुस्लिमो ने हिन्दुओ पे हमला किया हिन्दू बच्चे दरगाह की जमीन पर खेलने गए थे बस बात इतनी थी ओर फिर देख लो ओर हमारे कुछ सेक्युलर इनको भाई बनाकर रखना चाहते हैजो आप के बच्चो को खेलने नही दे रहे वो आप की बहन बेटियों के प्रति क्या सोच कर बैठे होंगेअभी भी समय है हिन्दू बनो pic.twitter.com/iNx3YvnxaL
To sum it up, an old image falsely shared as ‘RSS members attacked a Hindu woman for offering Sehri to a Muslim Kashmiri girl recently’.
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/04/Hindu-woman-attacked-by-RSS-FB-Post.jpg