URL: https://factly.in/old-image-of-shahrukh-khan-at-kolkata-airport-shared-as-recent-one-linking-it-to-mumbai-airport-customs-incident
Old image of Shahrukh Khan at Kolkata airport shared as recent one linking it to Mumbai airport customs incident - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-11-14T12:18:35+00:00
Amid media reports about Shahrukh Khan’s detention at Mumbai airport recently, an image of Shahrukh khan standing with outstretched hands in front of security personnel is being widely shared claiming that it is related to recent incident at Mumbai airport. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Image of Shahrukh Khan getting stopped at Mumbai airport on 12 November 2022.
Fact: The viral image shows Shahrukh Khan going through a regular security check at Kolkata airport on 27 March 2019. Hence the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
We searched the internet with relevant keywords and found a YouTube video uploaded on 28 March 2019. The title of the video reads, “Shahrukh Khan at security hold checking”. Upon comparing the viral image with the visuals in the video, we can conclude that both are related to a same incident.
Taking a cue from this, we found another video of the same location which says “Shahrukh Khan clicked on Kolkata Airport last night when leaving for Mumbai post KKR vs KXIP match”
One More Full Video: King Khan @iamsrk clicked on Kolkata Airport last night when leaving for Mumbai post #KKRvKXIP match! #KKRHaiTaiyaar⁠ ⁠ pic.twitter.com/s3gfgchHwx
Also, in the match highlights video available on IPL’s official website, Shahrukh can be seen cheering his team wearing the same shirt as seen in the viral image.
According to Times of India and Free Press Journal, Shahrukh Khan was reportedly returning to Mumbai after attending the 41st Sharjah international book fair on 11 November 2022. “Gift items do not have invoices, so calculating the customs duty took a while. However, after the process, he (Khan) was given the challan of Rs. 6.88 lakhs custom duty, and the matter was wrapped up. It was a routine case of customs duty, and not a great deal,” the official told media.
To sum it up, old image of Shahrukh Khan at Kolkata airport shared as recent one linking it to Mumbai airport customs incident

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/11/srk-airport-viral-image.png