URL: https://factly.in/old-photo-of-a-road-in-bihar-shared-as-pathetic-condition-of-roads-in-rahul-gandhis-constituency-wayanad
Old photo of a road in Bihar shared as pathetic condition of roads in Rahul Gandhi’s constituency Wayanad - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-07-09T13:56:06+00:00
Photo of a road full of large potholes is being shared on social media claiming it as the pathetic road and transport condition in Rahul Gandhi’s Lok Sabha constituency Wayanad. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of road full of potholes in Rahul Gandhi’s constituency Wayanad.
Fact: Image in the post shows the condition of Bhagalpur-Pirpainty- Mirzachowki National highway-80 at Bhagalpur district in Bihar. It is not from Rahul Gandhi’s constituency Wayanad. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
We did a reverse image search of the photo shared in the post and found a similar photo in a tweet posted by a random user in twitter. In that tweet, it is described as the condition of Bhagalpur-Pirpainty National Highway in Bihar. Based on this information we searched for additional information using keywords. We found the same photo in an article published by ‘Times of India’ news website in 2017, with the title ‘Bhagalpur NH-80 in a bad shape’. In that article, it is mentioned that the photo shows the condition of Bhagalpur-Pirpainty- Mirzachowki National highway-80 in Bhagalpur, Bihar.
When the same image went viral in 2017, the then Bihar Road and Transport Minister Tejaswi Yadav tweeted that the image doesn’t show the ground reality. ‘ABP Live’ news channel investigation revealed that the photo is of the national highway in Bhagalpur district in Bihar but shows its condition from two months prior to it going viral, and a new road has been laid by the time of their visit.
To sum it up, an old photo of a road from Bhagalpur district in Bihar is falsely shared as the condition of the roads in Rahul Gandhi’s constituency Wayanad.
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/07/wayanad-roadway-claim.jpg