URL: https://factly.in/old-image-of-a-container-home-is-shared-as-interior-view-of-caravans-used-in-bharat-jodo-yatra
Old image of a container home is shared as interiors of Caravans used in Bharat Jodo Yatra - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-09-19T12:17:58+00:00
An image of a luxury bedroom is being widely shared claiming it as the interior view of the Caravans used for the accommodation of Rahul Gandhi and other congress party leaders during Bharat Jodo Yatra which began on 07 September 2022. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Interior view of the Caravan used for accommodation of Rahul Gandhi and other leaders during Bharat Jodo Yatra.
Fact: The image shared in the post was uploaded to Flickr on 09 September 2009, by a New Zealand based prefabricated home making company. Also, the interiors of the containers used in the Bharat Jodo yatra do not match with the image shared in the post. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE
We ran a reverse image search of the viral image and found that the same image with higher resolution was uploaded to image hosting website Flickr on 16 September 2009 by a New Zealand based prefabricated house maker “One cool habitat”.
Upon comparing the both the images, we can conclude that both the images are same. Images of the same bedroom from different angles can be here. The metadata of the image also shows the same information.
Further research led us to the media reports showing the containers used for the accommodation of Rahul Gandhi and fellow Congress Party leaders. In an interview with India Today, Rajya Sabha MP and Congress party leader Jairam Ramesh said, “You’re seeing it for yourself, it’s a bare minimal container. There are 60 containers and about 230 people are accommodated. Rahul Gandhi’s container is a one-bed container. My container and Digvijay Singh’s container are 2-bed containers. There are 4-bed container and 12-bed containers too. These are not made in China containers. These are bare minimal utilitarian containers which we have hired from a Mumbai based company.”
Bharat Jodo Yatra: Congress leaders to spend next 150 days in container. Congress leader @Jairam_Ramesh shows the containers, where 'Bharat Yatri's' are sleeping.#Congress #RahulGandhi #ReporterDiary(@mausamii2u) pic.twitter.com/qfjfxVVxtm
The official media platform of Congress Party, INC TV, also posted a video on Twitter showing the interiors of a multi-bed container. The inside view of Rahul Gandhi’s container can be seen here. A News24 report showing the interior views of Jairam Ramesh’s container can be seen here
ExclusiveLive : ट्रक उसपर कंटेनर और कंटेनर के अंदर साधारण बिस्तरे।एक एक कंटेनर में कही 8 तो कही कही 12 लोग रात को विश्राम करते है। pic.twitter.com/A04bNN0GH7
To sum it up, an old image is being shared as interiors of the caravan used in Bharat Jodo Yatra

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/09/Rahul-gandhi-caravan-viral-post.png