URL: https://factly.in/old-train-accident-images-are-now-being-shared-as-those-from-an-accident-in-kanpur
Old Train accident images are now being shared as those from an accident in Kanpur - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-07-05T11:21:23+00:00
A post with some accident photos is being shared on Facebook with a claim that a train accident happened at Kanpur on the posted date (i.e. July 2nd, 2019). Let’s try to analyze the claim made in the post.
Claim: The photos show the recent Rajdhani train accident at Kanpur. People were jumping off the running train.  
Fact: The images in the post were taken from two different accidents, which happened in 2014 and 2018. Also, no train accident (derailment or fire accident) was reported in this month at Kanpur. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
In the post, there are three distinct types of photos: Two photos show a fire accident, one photo shows a derailed train, and the other photo shows an injured woman.
Fire accident photos: When the photos were run through Google Reverse Image Search, they were found to be related to a fire accident which happened last year near Birlanagar station in Gwalior. According to an article in ‘Rediff’, the ‘22416/Andhra Pradesh AC SF Express’ train travelling from New Delhi to Vizag has caught fire due to some issue in an air-conditioning unit. The photos in the post can be seen in the articles (Patrika and Rediff) published related to this accident.
Also, when checked if this train passes through Kanpur, it was found that the train route does not touch the city.
Train Derailed Photo:  When the photo was reverse-image searched on Google, it was found to be related to an accident in June 2014. In ‘The Hindu’ newspaper article, a photo similar to the posted photo was published with the title, ‘Rescue work in progress after 12 coaches of the Delhi-Dibrugarh Rajdhani Express derailed near Chapra in Bihar.’ The exact photo can be found in a website called ‘ProKerala’ with the title, ‘Delhi-Dibrugarh Rajdhani Express derailed.’ This train passes through Kanpur but the accident happened in Bihar. So, this photo is not related to an accident in Kanpur.
Injured Woman Photo:When this image was searched using Yandex Reverse Image Search, it was found in a tweet with a description that she was brutally attacked by TMC goons in West Bengal. It was tweeted in April 2018. The information related to the incident was not found but it can be conclusively said that the photo was not taken in this year. So, it is also not related to an accident this year.
Com: #RakhiRoy, #CPIM candidate for Zila Parishad elections in #Arambagh, #WestBengal was brutally attacked by #TMC goons. Condemns this horrific attack and demands immediate action. pic.twitter.com/2y1Tl6kIZi
 To sum it up, the train accident photos are related to accidents which happened in 2014 and 2018 and have nothing to do with Kanpur. In fact, no train accident is reported from Kanpur this month and old images are now being shared again.
 Did you watch our new Episode of DECODE series on Parliament?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/07/Rajdhani-Express-accident-FB-Post.jpg