URL: https://factly.in/old-photo-from-yemen-falsely-shared-as-visuals-of-security-check-at-an-airport-in-afghanistan
Old photo from Yemen falsely shared as visuals of security check at an airport in Afghanistan - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-08-30T07:49:31+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it as the visuals of security check at an airport in Afghanistan. This photo shows a person dressed in army uniform checking a man who was deliberately carrying a heavy gun on his shoulders. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo showing the security check at an airport in Afghanistan.
Fact: The photo shared in the post was shot in 2015 by a ‘CBS’ news channel reporter in Yemen. This photo shows Houthi rebel forces checking people before allowing them to enter a rally. This old photo from Yemen has nothing to do with Afghanistan. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in a tweet by the Middle East ‘CBS’ news channel producer Amjad Tadros on 01 July 2015. Amjad Tadros reported it as the visuals of Houthi rebel forces checking people before allowing them to enter a rally in Yemen.
Memories from #yemen: Houthi soldier searching a man going into a rally: Qat, daggers & machine guns allowed! pic.twitter.com/TFevPYz9pv
When we searched for more details regarding this photo, a video with similar visuals was found published on the ‘CBS Evening News’ YouTube channel on 16 June 2015. The description of the video stated it as the visuals from Yemen’s civil war. This video reported that Saudi Arabia led coalition conducted airstrikes on military installations that are under the control of Houthi rebel forces. A few other websites have also shared the same photo by reporting it as the visuals from Yemen. This photo was shot reportedly at Yemen’s capital city, Sanaa.
Reporting the complete details of the photo, ‘Reuters’ published a fact-check article on 25 August 2021. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the image shared in the post is an old one and has nothing to do with the ongoing crisis in Afghanistan.
To sum it up, an old photo from Yemen is falsely shared as visuals of a security check at an airport in Afghanistan.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/08/Security-check-at-Afghanistan-Airport-Claim.jpg