URL: https://factly.in/old-image-of-trudeaus-visit-to-a-sikh-congregation-is-falsely-linked-to-farmers-protest
Old image of Trudeau’s visit to a Sikh congregation is falsely linked to farmers' protest - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-12-07T12:13:32+00:00
A post accompanying an image in which the Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau can be seen sitting with a congregation of Sikhs is being shared on social media with a claim that he is taking part in a protest organized in solidarity with the farmer’s protest. Through this article let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Canadian PM Justin Trudeau taking part in a protest organized in solidarity with the Indian farmers’ protest.
Fact: The image is actually clicked when Trudeau paid a visit to Gurdwara Sahib Ottawa Sikh Society in Ottawa back in 2015. The same image is available on Stock photography website with a description ascertaining his visit. This image has nothing to do with ongoing farmers’ protest. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Reverse image search of the photo in the post led us to few 2015 news articles which reported the same image. According to one such news article, the image was clicked when Trudeau paid a visit to Gurdwara Sahib Ottawa Sikh Society in Ottawa back in 2015. Another 2015 news article which carried the same image along with the same description can be read here. The same image can also be found on the Reuters pictures.
Further search also led us to the same image on a stock photography website. According to the description, the image was clicked on 11 November 2015 when Trudeau paid a visit to Gurdwara Sahib Ottawa Sikh Society in Ottawa. News article regarding his visit can be read here. Al these establish that the image is old and has nothing to do with ongoing farmer’s protest.
In the light of the Canadian Prime Minister’s comments in support of the farmers’ protest, posts like these are being shared on social media platforms with misleading claims.
To sum it up, 2015 image of Trudeau’s visit to a Sikh society in Ottawa is shared as him taking part in a protest organized in solidarity with the Indian farmers’ protest.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/12/Justin-Trudeau-Farmers-protest-FB-Post.jpg