URL: https://factly.in/old-unrelated-images-shared-as-zee-news-office-attacked-for-its-editor-sudhir-chaudharys-remarks-on-delhi-voters
Old unrelated images shared as ‘Zee News office attacked for its Editor Sudhir Chaudhary’s remarks on Delhi voters’ - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-02-13T14:43:01+00:00
A couple of photos are being widely shared on Facebook with the claim that Zee News office was attacked for its Editor Sudhir Chaudhary’s remarks on Delhi voters. During a show on Zee News about the 2020 Delhi Elections exit polls, which predicted a victory to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Sudhir Chaudhary has said that Delhi voters only wanted ‘freebies’ and they do not care about Balakot airstrikes, Article 370 and Ram Temple. Let’s analyze the authenticity of the claim made in the post.
Claim: Images of Zee News office attacked for its Editor Sudhir Chaudhary’s remarks on Delhi voters during the 2020 Delhi Elections.
Fact: The photo of Zee News Editor Sudhir Chaudhary with nose injury is found to exist on the internet at least since 13 July 2019. And, the image of the vandalised office shows an attacked Mumbai Congress office in 2017. So, the images are old and the claim is FALSE.
When the first image is subjected to reverse image search, the same image was found in a YouTube video. The video reported about the accident to Zee News Editor Sudhir Chaudhary and injury to his nose. The video had the timestamp–‘13 July 2019’. Also, another video of Sudhir Chaudhary was found, in which he speaks about his car accident in Mumbai and injury to his nose.
When the second image in the post was subjected to reverse image search, it was found in an article of ‘Mumbai Live’. The article was about the vandalized Mumbai Congress office by MNS (Maharashtra Navnirman Sena) leaders. The same image was also found in the ‘ANI’ tweet about the attack on the Mumbai Congress office. The tweet was made on ‘1 December 2017’.
#Mumbai: Unidentified persons vandalized Mumbai Congress office at CST, more details awaited pic.twitter.com/hqfUDYyBXZ
To sum it up, old unrelated images shared as ‘Zee News office attacked for its Editor Sudhir Chaudhary’s remarks on Delhi voters’. 
Did you watch our new video in the DECODE series?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/02/Sudheer-Chaudhary-rant-FB-post.jpg