URL: https://factly.in/old-and-unrelated-images-are-being-shared-as-andhra-pradesh-police-brutality-on-women-farmers
Old and unrelated images are being shared as ‘Andhra Pradesh Police brutality on women farmers’ - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-01-17T12:12:06+00:00
A post with three pictures  is being shared with a claim that they represent the Andhra Pradesh Police brutality on women farmers. Let’s try to analyze the claim.
Claim: Photos of Andhra Pradesh Police brutality on women farmers.
Fact: The photos included in the post are from various protests in different states but are not related to the current protests over the capital city in the state of Andhra Pradesh. So, the claim is FALSE.   
Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan Mohan Reddy has proposed three capitals to the state on December 17, 2019. Since then, farmers who had earlier donated their lands for ‘Amaravati’ have been protesting against it. 
Image-1:
The same photo can be found in a tweet made in November 2018. The same photo can also be found in a YouTube video uploaded in May 2018. While the context of the photo cannot be ascertained with the available information, it can be concluded that the photo is not related to the recent protests in AP. Previously, when the same photo was shared with a different claim, FACTLY has written a fact-check article, which can be read here.
Image-2:
The image was found in the photo library of ‘Reuters’. As per the description, the photo is of Delhi Police trying to detain a JNU student who was protesting against a proposed fee hike. The photo was taken on November 18, 2019.
Image-3:
The image was found in the December 12, 2019 article of ‘Firstpost’. From the article, the photo was found to be from a protest against Citizenship Amendment Bill in Guwahati (Assam).
The same photos are also being shared as people injured in the anti-CAA protests in Assam.
To sum it up, old and unrelated images are being shared as ‘Andhra Pradesh Police brutality on women farmers’
Did you watch our new video in the DECODE series?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/01/AP-police-brutality-Tweet.jpg