URL: https://factly.in/old-image-from-nepal-is-passed-off-as-a-major-earthquake-in-assam
Old Image from Nepal is passed off as a major Earthquake in Assam - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-05-03T14:53:37+00:00
A social media post is being widely shared claiming that the image is of a partially collapsed building due to a major earthquake in Assam. Let us fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Image of collapsed buildings due to a major Earthquake in Assam.Fact: The image was captured on 25 April 2015 in Kathmandu when Nepal was facing one of its worst earthquakes in decades. Though there was a recent earthquake incident in Assam, this image is not related to Assam and was taken more than 6 years ago. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
A reverse image search of the image in the post directed us to a news article that was published more than 6 years ago. According to the article, the image was captured on 25 April 2015 in Kathmandu at a time when Nepal had one of its worst Earthquakes in decades. Therefore, the image is not from Assam, but from Nepal.
However, it is true that there was a major earthquake in Assam recently. Several houses and buildings were damaged after an earthquake of magnitude 6.4 on the Richter scale hit Assam around 8 am on 28 April 2021. Some of the news articles about the incident can be seen here, here, here, and here. Hence, the image in the post is unrelated to the recent incident as it is more than 6 years old.
Like the image in the post, a building in Nagaon tilted against its adjacent building because of the recent earthquake that hit Assam. Here is the Twitter video post of the building.
#WATCH Assam | A building in Nagaon tilts against its adjacent building. An earthquake with a magnitude of 6.4 on the Richter Scale hit Sonitpur today. Tremors were felt in Nagaon too. pic.twitter.com/03ljgzyBhS
To sum it up, an old image of Nepal is passed off as a major Earthquake in Assam.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/05/assameq_post.jpg