URL: https://factly.in/old-video-and-photos-are-shared-as-the-current-farmers-protest-in-panipat
Old video and photos are shared as the current farmers protest in Panipat - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-09-24T15:13:40+00:00
A collage with a group of photos and a video is being shared on social media claiming them as the pictures and video footage of farmers protest in Panipat. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photos and video footage of farmers protest in Panipat.
Fact: All the photos and video shared in the post are of old incidents of farmers protest at different places in the country. These photos and video have nothing to do with the ongoing farmer’s protests against the agriculture bills passed by the Government of India. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Video:
On reverse image search, a photo with similar visual in the video is found in an article published by ‘ZEE News’ website on ‘21 February 2019’. It is reported in the article that as talks between farmers outfits and Maharashtra Government failed, farmers in large numbers started ‘Kisan Long March’ from Nashik towards Mumbai. The same video was shared in a tweet posted by the official twitter handle of the CPI(M) party. One of the visuals in the video can also be seen in an article published by ‘Scroll.in’ website on ‘22 February 2019’. These indicate that the video is not from the recent protests.
#KisanLongMarch is on its way leaving Nashik towards Mumbai despite refusal of permission by police. #KisanMarchesAgain #BJPBetraysKisans pic.twitter.com/cFUH6lLh9V
Image1:
On reverse image search, the similar photo was found in an article published in ‘YourStory’ website on ‘13 March 2018’. This article was about the farmers march to Mumbai in 2018. It has nothing to do with the ongoing farmers protest against the three agriculture bills passed by the Government of India.
Image 2:
On reverse image search, similar photo is found in an article published by Sabrang website on ‘11 September 2017’. In the article, it is mentioned as a massive protest organized by the Rajasthan farmers on curbing their democratic freedoms by the BJP Government. The same photo was shared by a user on his Facebook page in 2017.
Image 3:
On reverse image search of the photos shared in this image, similar photos were found in the articles published by different news websites. They can be seen here, here, here, and here. All these articles shared these photos in reference to farmers struggle in the country. These photos are old and have nothing to do with the ongoing farmers’ protests.
To sum it up, old video and photos are falsely shared as the farmers protest in Panipat.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/09/Farmers-protest-in-Panipat-Claim.jpg