URL: https://factly.in/old-image-of-baba-ramdev-is-shared-as-him-being-hospitalised-and-on-ventilator-support
Old image of Baba Ramdev is shared as him being hospitalised and on ventilator support - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-05-10T11:24:13+00:00
A post accompanying an image of Baba Ramdev in a hospital surrounded by people is being shared across social media platforms with a claim that the image shows the present condition of Baba Ramdev. The viral post states that ‘Baba who preaches people about oxygen himself is on a ventilator now’. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Baba Ramdev admitted in a hospital and is on ventilator support.
Fact: This is an old image from 2011 when Baba Ramdev was hospitalised in Dehradun following a nine-day hunger strike against corruption and black money. There are no latest news articles or any other information stating that he is hospitalised and is on ventilator support. Hence the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
Reverse image search of the photo in the post led us to a photo collection of India Today in which the same photo is featured. The collection also features few more images of Baba Ramdev being hospitalised. According to the description associated with the images in this collection, Baba Ramdev sat on a hunger strike for nine days against black money & corruption back in June 2011. Following the deterioration of his health, he was admitted to a hospital in Dehradun, where he ended the fast in the presence of religious and spiritual leaders. The image in the post is related to his hospitalisation following a hunger strike.
Further google search with relevant keywords yielded multiple news articles which reported Baba Ramdev’s hunger strike back in 2011. One such article which published the images of Baba Ramdev in a hospital where he broke the hunger strike can be seen here. Other news articles which reported the incident can be read here and here.
There are no recent news articles stating that Baba Ramdev is hospitalised. In fact Baba Ramdev is very active on his official Instagram account. Lately, he shared many videos of his yoga sessions.
To sum it up, old image of Baba Ramdev is shared as him being hospitalised and on ventilator support.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/05/Baba-Ramdev-Ventilator-FB-Post.jpg