URL: https://factly.in/old-images-of-congress-top-leaders-and-partymen-in-jubilant-mood-are-being-circulated-with-false-claims
Old images of Congress top leaders and party men in jubilant mood are being circulated with false claims - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-03-15T13:50:24+00:00
A post containing few pics of Congress top leaders and party men in jubilant mood are being circulated on Facebook. The post contained the narration that  Congress Party is celebrating China‘s blockade of India‘s bid to designate Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Masood Azhar  as a global terrorist in the UN Security Council. Let’s try to analyze the claim made in the post.  

The archived version of the post can be found here.
Claim: Congress Party is celebrating  after China blocked India’s bid to designate Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Masood Azhar as a global terrorist in the UN Security Council.
Fact:  Pictures in the post are old images which correspond to the Congress party‘s celebrations after its victory on different occasions. Hence the claim mentioned in the post is FALSE.
When the three pictures in the post are run through Google Reverse Image Search it is found that each of the pictures are from Congress party‘s victory celebrations on different occasions. The first image is taken during NSUI‘s (youth wing of Congress) victory in the Delhi University Students Union elections-2012.An article with this pic can be found in ‘The Hindu‘ dated September 16,2012. 
 

The second image is captured during celebrations in Lucknow on the occasion of Rahul Gandhi taking over as Congress chief. An article regarding it can be found in ‘The Statesman‘ dated December 16, 2017. 

The third image corresponds to the Congressmen celebrations for their victory in 2018 State Elections.An article with the image can be found in ‘GULF NEWS INDIA‘ dated on December 11,2018.
Finally, pictures in the post are old images which correspond to the Congress party‘s celebrations after its victory on various occasions. 

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/03/Rahul-and-Sonia-FB-Post-Screenshot.png