URL: https://factly.in/old-image-of-a-dilapidated-mohalla-clinic-is-passed-off-as-the-present-condition-of-the-clinic
Old image of a dilapidated mohalla clinic is passed off as the present condition of the clinic - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-06-01T12:44:59+00:00
A social media post accompanying an image of a dilapidated mohalla clinic in Delhi is being shared with a claim alluding that this image shows the present condition of the mohalla clinic.  Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Image showing present dilapidated condition of Mohalla clinic in Delhi.
Fact: This image shows the condition of Babarpur mohalla clinic back in 2018. AAP has refuted the claim that the image shows the present condition of the clinic by sharing a video of the present condition of the clinic. The present condition of this particular clinic is in no way similar to the image in the post. Hence the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
Google search with relevant keywords led us to a 2018 news article that published the same image. According to this article, the image shows the deteriorated condition of a Mohalla clinic in Babarpur. The title of the article reads ‘Donkeys sleep in Kejriwal’s dream project Mohalla Clinic, horses rest’. This confirms that this is an old image.
Further search led us to a tweet by Gopal Rai, who is the elected representative of Babarpur constituency. The tweet shares the images from the inauguration of the mohalla clinic in Babarpur’s Kabir Nagar in October 2019.  
बाबरपुर विधानसभा के वार्ड 49 E के कबीर नगर में मोहल्ला क्लीनिक, शमशान घाट में शैड, सड़क, पानी की लाइन, गालियाँ एवं अन्य विकास कार्यो का उद्घाटन किया। pic.twitter.com/J4sDk9lC50
Further, when Delhi BJP leader Gautam Gambhir shared the same image on Twitter, AAP’s official Twitter handle replied to this tweet by sharing the video of AAP councillor showing the present condition of the clinic.
.@GautamGambhir जी,2020 दिल्ली विधानसभा चुनाव से पहले आपने बंद स्कूल की तस्वीर दिखा कर झूठ फैलाया था।आज आपने 3 साल पुरानी Under Construction मोहल्ला क्लिनिक की तस्वीर दिखा कर झूठ फैलाया है।लगता है भाजपा को Manipulated Media Party बनने का बहुत शौक है! pic.twitter.com/eMOumiBDEb
To sum it up, the old image of a dilapidated mohalla clinic is passed off as the present condition of the clinic.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/06/Delhi-Mohalla-Clinic-Images-FB-Post.jpg