URL: https://factly.in/old-image-of-vegetables-spilled-all-over-the-road-is-being-passed-off-linking-it-to-bharat-bandh
Old image of vegetables spilt all over the road is being linked to Bharat bandh - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-12-09T09:34:13+00:00
A post with an image showing vegetables spilt all over the road is being widely shared across social media platforms with a claim linking it to Bharat bandh called by farmer unions & political parties over the new farm bills. Through this article let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: People supporting the Bharat bandh spilt vegetables all over the road which are produced by farmers showing their double standards towards the farmers.
Fact: This is an old image; it is available on the internet at least since May 2020. This image has nothing to do with the Bharat bandh called by the farmers protesting against the new farm bills. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Reverse image search of the photo in the post led us to a May 2020 Facebook post which shared the same image asserting a different perspective.
Further search also led us to a blog dated 09 May 2020 in which the same image was featured. However, the original source of the image and the context surrounding the image is not known. The presence of the image on the internet is evident from the date of the social media post and the blog which shared this image. Hence it can be ascertained that this image has nothing to do with the Bharat bandh called by farmer unions & political parties.
In the light of Bharat bandh called by the farmer unions & political parties against the new farm bills, posts like these are being widely shared across social media platforms with misleading claims.
To sum it up, an old image of vegetables spilt all over the road is being linked to the recent Bharat bandh called by the farmer unions against the new farm bills.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/12/Bharth-Bandh-Vegetables-FB-Post.jpg