URL: https://factly.in/old-photos-are-liked-to-the-martyred-indian-soldiers-in-the-recent-clashes-at-galwan-valley
Old photos are linked to the martyred Indian soldiers in the recent clashes at Galwan valley - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-06-19T18:22:13+00:00
Multiple photos are shared on social media linking them to Indian soldiers martyred in the recent border clash between India and China in the Galwan valley (Ladakh). Let’s verify the authenticity of these images.
Claim: Pictures of martyred Indian soldiers in the recent border clash between India and China in the Galwan valley (Ladakh).
Fact: The photos shown in these posts are old. They are not related to the recent face-off that took place between India and China in Galwan valley (Ladakh). Hence the claim made is FALSE.    
Image-1 (Archived):
On reverse image search, it is found that this photo is related to the horrific killing of 76 CRPF Jawans by Naxals in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada district. Information related to the incident can be seen here and here.
Image-2 (Archived)
When searched for the image, it is found out that this photo is in circulation at least since 31 May 2020. This image was also tweeted by Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha), Asaduddin Owaisi asking the government if it is true. The image allegedly shows PLA troops bringing down several Indian soldiers at a close-quarters fight at Pangong Lake. More information on this image can be read here and here. Though the context of this image cannot be exactly established, it is definitely not related to the recent clashes at Galwan Valley.
Image-3 (Archived):
On reverse image search, this image was found to be shared on social media at least since 16 February 2019, in the aftermath of the attack on CRPF personnel by a suicide bomber. The same image was found in Reddit post published on 16 February 2020, titled ‘The mortal remains of the martyred Indian soldiers from the Pulwama terrorist attack being taken to their hometown for cremation’.
To sum it up, old photos from different contexts are now falsely shared as those related to martyred Indian soldiers in the recent border clash between India and China in the Galwan valley (Ladakh).
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/06/Photos-claiming-Ladakh-incident-CLAIM-1-1024x421.jpg