URL: https://factly.in/old-and-unrelated-images-are-being-shared-as-rss-attack-on-muslims-in-telangana
Old and unrelated images are being shared as ‘RSS attack on Muslims in Telangana’ - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-08-16T11:02:49+00:00
A couple of images are being shared on social media with a claim that RSS members attacked Muslims and burned their houses at a village in Telangana. It is also claimed that Asaduddin Owaisi got injured in this attack. Let’s try to analyze the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photos of the attack on Muslims by RSS men in Telangana. 
Fact: The photos in the post does not belong to the state of Telangana. Also, these photos were not taken recently (one was taken in 2017 and the other in 2006). Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When searched for the news on this issue on Google, no latest news was found related to RSS workers attacking Muslims in Telangana or Owaisi getting hurt in the attack. In the post, there are two photos. Let’s try to check when and where those photos were taken.
Photo 1:
When this image in the post wan run through the Google Reverse Image Search, the same picture was found to be uploaded on Adobe Stock by ‘Cathal Mcnaughton / Reuters’ in April-2017. The description for the picture reads, “Hindu Yuva Vahin vigilante members take part in a rally in the city of Unnao”. So, this photo was not taken in Telangana.
Photo 2:
On Google Reverse Image Search, this photo was found in a photo-essay (‘2006: India Grieved’) published by the ‘Outlook’ magazine in December 2006. The description below the picture reads, “At least two people were killed and dozens injured in communal clashes in Mangalore and adjoining areas after a van carrying cattle to a slaughter house was stopped by Bajrang Dal activists.” So, this photo was taken 13 years back in Mangalore (Karnataka), not in Telangana.
To sum it up, old and unrelated images are being shared as ‘RSS attack on Muslims in Telangana’.  There is no news of such an attack taking place.
Did you watch our new Episode of the DECODE series on Parliament?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/08/RSS-attacked-muslims-in-Telangana-FB-Post.jpg