URL: https://factly.in/old-photos-are-falsely-shared-as-karni-sena-convoy-going-to-mumbai-in-support-of-kangana-ranaut
Old photos are falsely shared as 'Karni Sena' convoy going to Mumbai in support of Kangana Ranaut - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-09-09T16:31:44+00:00
A collage with the photos of a large convoy is being shared on social media claiming it as the photos of Karni Sena convoy going to Mumbai in support of Kangana Ranaut. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photos of Karni Sena convoy going to Mumbai in support of Kangana Ranaut.Fact: Photos shared in the post show an old convoy picture at unknown locations in the country. They are old photos and hace nothing to do with the ongoing tussle between Kangana and Maharashtra Government. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Photo-1:
On reverse image search, a similar photo was found in the Facebook post of a user posted on ‘14 July 2020’. The same photo was found in a tweet posted by another user in 2018. In both these posts, they claim it as the convoy of Rajasthan Former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot. However, we could not ascertain if it was Sachin Pilot’s convoy because of lack of conclusive evidence. But it is an old photo which has nothing to do with the Karni Sena’s plans to escort Kangana Ranaut from Mumbai Airport to her home.
Photo-2:
On reverse image search, similar photo found in a tweet by a random user on ‘05 March 2017’. The same photo was found in a Facebook post claiming it as the caravan of Brahman group. Though the original context of this photo is not known,  it can be concluded as an old photo and has nothing to do with the ongoing tussle between Kangana Ranaut and Maharashtra Government.
In the ongoing tussle between Kangana Ranaut and Maharashtra Government, Karni Sena members announced on ‘07 September 2020’ that they will escort Kangana Ranaut from the Mumbai Airport to her home. The tussle between Kangana and Siva Sena leaders started when Kangana compared Mumbai to ‘Pakistan Occupied Kasmir (PoK)’ in her tweet.  Karni Sena members gathered at Mumbai Airport on 09 September 2020 to support Kangana Ranaut. Visuals at the airport can be seen here.
To sum it up, old photos are now falsely shared as the Karni Sena convoy going to Mumbai in support of Kangana Ranaut.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/09/Karni-Sena-convoy-Claim-1.jpg