URL: https://factly.in/old-photos-shared-as-the-visuals-of-vandalised-properties-in-the-recent-bhainsa-communal-riots
Old Photos shared as visuals of vandalised properties in the recent Bhainsa communal riots - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-03-19T09:42:21+00:00
Multiple images are being shared on social media claiming them as the visuals from the recent communal clashes in Bhainsa town of Telangana. They can be seen here, here, and here. These photos show vandalized houses, vehicles, and other properties. Let’s verify the claims made in these posts.
Claim: Photos of the vandalised properties in the recent Bhainsa communal violence.
Fact: Except for one photo, all other photos in these posts are not related to the recent communal clashes at Bhainsa town in Telangana. Two photos in these posts are related to the 2020 Delhi riots. Another two photos are related to the old communal clashes in Bhainsa. Hence, the claims made in these posts are MISLEADING.
Let’s check the details of each photo and try to find whether they are related to the recent communal clashes in Bhainsa.
Photo-1:
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in the ‘Al Jazeera’ article published in February 2020. This article reported it as a visual from the 2020 Delhi riots. The same photo is also found with a similar description on the ‘Getty Images’ website.
Photo-2:
A similar photo was found published in several news articles, mentioning it as a visual from the 2020 Delhi riots. Those articles can be seen here and here.
Photo-3:
On the reverse image search, a similar photo was found in ‘The News Minute’ article published in January 2020. This article reported it as a vandalised car in the communal clashes that took place in Bhainsa town on 13 January 2020.
Photo-4:
On reverse image search, a similar photo was found in ‘The Hindu’ article published on 13 January 2020. It is reported as the photo of a bike that was burnt down during the communal violence in Bhainsa town.
Photo-5:
On reverse image search, a similar photo was found in an article published in January 2020. This photo was also reported as a visual from the 2020 communal riots in Bhainsa.
To sum it up, old photos are now being shared as visuals of vandalised properties in the recent Bhainsa communal riots.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/03/Visuals-in-Communal-Violence-hit-Bhainsa-Claim1.jpg