URL: https://factly.in/old-photo-of-kiran-rao-before-her-divorce-from-aamir-khan-shared-as-the-recent-one
Old photo of Kiran Rao before her divorce from Aamir Khan shared as the recent one - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-10-14T08:21:32+00:00
An image of Bollywood producer and Aamir Khan’s ex-wife Kiran Rao walking alone on a street is being widely shared on social media claiming it as a recent photo after her divorce. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of Aamir Khan’s ex-wife Kiran Rao walking alone on a street after her divorce.
Fact: This photo of Kiran Rao walking on the streets on Bandra, Mumbai was first featured in an article by Bollywood Tadka on 22 September 2019. However, Aamir Khan and Kiran Rao announced their divorce in July 2021. Evidently, the picture is taken much before the announcement of their divorce. Hence the claim made in the post is MISLEADING
We ran a reverse image search using the viral photo and found that the same photo was featured in an article by BollywoodTadka on 22 September 2019. The title of the article reads, “Aamir Khan’s wife came out on the streets wearing a kurta alone, it was difficult to recognize without makeup”.
Other pictures of Kiran Rao during that time can also be seen in this article. Reportedly, these photos were captured when she was walking in the streets of Bandra, Mumbai. The same article was also shared by Punjab Kesari on Twitter on 22 September 2019.
अकेला कुर्ता पहन सड़कों पर निकलीं आमिर की 45 की पत्नी, बिना मेकअप पहचानना हुआ मुश्किलhttps://t.co/lSly55LHft #KiranRao pic.twitter.com/uexzy83pG3
However, Aamir Khan and Kiran Rao announced their divorce in July 2021. It is evident that the picture of viral image of Kiran Rao walking alone on the streets was captured much before the announcement of their divorce.
To sum it up, an old image of Kiran Rao walking alone on the streets of Bandra is shared as the recent one following her divorce from Aamir Khan.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/10/kiran-rao-viral-post.png