URL: https://factly.in/old-unrelated-photos-falsely-shared-as-hindus-killed-by-muslims-in-the-delhi-riots
Old unrelated photos falsely shared as ‘Hindus killed by Muslims in the Delhi riots’ - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-02-27T12:02:22+00:00
Some photos are being shared widely on social media with a claim that they show Hindus killed by Muslims in the recent Delhi riots. Let’s try to analyze the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photos of Hindus killed by the Muslims in the recent Delhi riots.
Fact: All the photos in the post are old. They are not related to the recent Delhi riots.  Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE. 
They are three photos in the post. Let’s try to check each one of them:
Photo 1:
The same photo can be found to be uploaded on Facebook in February 2016 with a different claim. The photo can be also found in a blog post written in 2015. The blog has been removed now, but the archived version of the post can be seen here. The photo was also found on the ‘Medium’ website. While the exact context of the photo cannot be ascertained with the available information, it is not related to the recent Delhi riots.
Photo 2:
On the ‘Medium’ website, the same photo was found to be uploaded on 9 June 2018. Also, the photo can be found in a YouTube video uploaded in May 2019. So, the photo is an old one. It is not related to the recent riots.
Photo 3:
On doing the reverse image search, the same photo was found in a 2018 Facebook post. Similar photos can be also found in an article published on the ‘Daily hunt’ news website in 2018. In the article, it can be read the incident happened in Bihar. Also, it was found that ‘Boom’ has written a fact-check article in 2018 on the same photo when it went viral with another false claim.
To sum it up, old unrelated photos are falsely being shared as ‘Hindus killed by the Muslims in the Delhi riots’.
Did you watch our new video in the DECODE series?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/02/Hindus-killed-photos-FB-Post.jpg