URL: https://factly.in/old-photo-from-gujarat-shared-now-as-visuals-of-mosque-demolition-in-uttar-pradesh
Old photo from Gujarat shared now as visuals of mosque demolition in Uttar Pradesh - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-11-02T15:41:48+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it as the image of a recent mosque demolition in Uttar Pradesh. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Image showing a mosque demolition in Uttar Pradesh.
Fact: The photo shared in the post shows an old incident where Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation(AMC) officials demolished an illegal religious construction at the Juhapura area in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. This incident took place in August 2014. The photo shared in the post is old and not related to Uttar Pradesh. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found tweeted by a user on 07 August 2014. This user mentioned it as the visuals of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation(AMC) officials demolishing an illegal mosque construction at the Juhapur area in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. This user credited the photos to the ‘Desh Gujarat’ news channel. The same photo was found posted on the ‘Desh Gujarat’ Facebook page on 06 August 2014.
The ‘Desh Gujarat’ news channel shared an article link along with the photo in the post. According to the details provided in the article, in August 2014, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation(AMC) officials had demolished all illegal constructions built over AMC’s land reserved for waste disposal plant. As part of this programme, AMC officials reportedly demolished an illegal mosque constructed in the Juhapura area in Ahmedabad. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the image shared in the post is old and not related to Uttar Pradesh.
To sum it up,  an old photo from Gujarat is now falsely shared as the image of a mosque demolition in Uttar Pradesh.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/11/Mosque-demolishing-visuals-from-Uttar-Pradesh-Claim.jpg