URL: https://factly.in/old-photo-from-bangladesh-is-falsely-shared-as-blood-flood-indian-streets-during-eid
Old photo from Bangladesh is falsely shared as blood filled Indian streets during Eid - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-07-28T10:05:26+00:00
A photo showing red-coloured water clogging the streets is being shared on social media indicating that it represents the blood-filled Indian streets due to animal sacrifice during Eid. The post even claims that there is a river of Sharbat flowing in the streets during Eid. Let us fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of blood filled Indian streets streets during Eid.
Fact: This is actually a 2016 photo from Bangladesh. Heavy rainfall along with Eid-al-Adha animal sacrifices, led to Bangladesh capital Dhaka’s streets turn into blood red water. This picture is not related to India. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When reverse image search with relevant keywords is done on the photo, an article by ABP News was found with the same image. The article titled, ‘Massive animal sacrifice turn Dhaka streets blood red after heavy rainfall’ was published on 14 September 2016. Heavy rainfall along with Eid-al-Adha animal sacrifices led to Bangladesh capital Dhaka streets turn into blood-red water.
‘While two locations were set for animal slaughter by Dhaka city corporations (as reported by Dhaka Tribune), but the instructions were not followed by people, and they resorted to slaughtering animals in their garages and on the streets’. Flooding and the annual sacrifices of livestock are regular occurrences in Dhaka. Articles regarding these incidents can be seen here and here.
Eid-al-Adha is celebrated by Muslims as prophet Ibrahim showed his readiness to sacrifice his son Ishmael. ‘Goats and cows are brought from markets by Muslim families and slaughtered, to thank Allah for sparing Ishmael, after an imam has read verses from the Koran.’ Eid-al-Adha is the second biggest annual celebration for Muslims after Eid-al-Fitr.
To sum it up, an old photo from Bangladesh is falsely shared as blood-filled Indian streets due to Eid celebrations.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/07/Rooh-Afza-Sharbat-On-Streets-During-Eid_post.jpg