URL: https://factly.in/old-photo-is-shared-as-related-to-the-recent-bombing-in-peshawar-pakistan
Old photo is shared as related to the recent bombing in Peshawar, Pakistan - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-03-08T14:18:45+00:00
A photo through a post is being widely shared on social media claiming that a man carrying a kid and escaping a fire, is from the recent Peshawar blasts in Pakistan. Let us fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo showing the recent Peshawar blasts in Pakistan.
Fact: The photo is from 2013 and is not a recent one. In the picture, a Pakistani man carrying a child was running away from the blast site shortly after a car exploded in 2013. On 29 September 2013, this car bomb exploded in Peshawar, Pakistan. There was a recent suicide bombing in Peshawar at a Shi’ite Mosque which killed at least 58 people. Hence, the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
When reverse image search is done on the photo, the same photo was found on Twitter. Pakistani journalist named Faizan Lakhani had tweeted the same photo on 29 September 2013. The photo is of a man carrying a child running away after an explosion in Qisakhuwani Bazar in Peshawar, Pakistan.
PICTURE: A man carrying a child, running away after powerful explosion rocked Peshawar's Qisakhuwani bazar. pic.twitter.com/8ucrm2Yztf
According to Associated Press, this picture is of a Pakistani man carrying a child who was running away from the blast site shortly after a car exploded in 2013.
On 29 September 2013, a car bomb exploded in Peshawar, Pakistan, killing at least 33 people. According to news reports, the explosion destroyed many shops in the historic Qissa Khawani market. However, there was also a recent suicide bombing in Peshawar at a Shi’ite Mosque which killed at least 58 people. So, the photo is related to an older blast in 2013.
To sum it up, an old photo is shared as related to the recent bombing in Peshawar, Pakistan.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/03/Pakistan-Peshawar-Mosque-Blast-Photo_post.jpg