URL: https://factly.in/old-photo-from-china-is-shared-as-visuals-of-passengers-pushing-an-airplane-in-delhi-airport
Old photo from China is shared as visuals of passengers pushing an aeroplane in Delhi airport - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-09-17T10:17:01+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it as recent visuals of passengers pushing an aeroplane from the waterlogged runway in Delhi airport. This post compares these visuals with that of Afghan citizens running along the US Military plane in Kabul airport. Amid the recent reports of waterlogging at Indira Gandhi International airport in Delhi, this post is being shared on social media. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of passengers pushing a plane from the water-logged runway in Delhi airport.
Fact: The photo shared in the post was shot in 2007 at Yantai airport in Shandong, China. The photo shared in the post is an old one and not from India. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in an article published by the ‘Sohu News’ website on 13 August 2007. This article reported it as the visuals of Yantai airport staff pushing a Shandong Airlines regional jet to safety. The Yantai Penglai International Airport is located in Shandong, an eastern Chinese province on the yellow sea. According to the ‘Sohu News’ article, the Yantai region in the Shandong province had experienced severe rainfall and floods during the second week of August in 2007.  Also, in another photo shared in the article, we could clearly see the ‘Shandong Airlines B-3008’ name on the plane.
Reporting the same, a few other news websites have also published articles in 2007. They can be read here and here. When this image recently went viral as visuals from Delhi airport, the Shandong Government clarified that this image was taken at Yantai airport in 2007.
To sum it up, an old photo from China is falsely shared as visuals of passengers pushing an aeroplane in Delhi airport.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/09/Passengers-pushing-airplane-from-the-waterlogged-runway-in-Delhi-airport-Claim.jpg