URL: https://factly.in/old-images-are-being-shared-with-a-false-narrative-of-62-degrees-temperature-in-kuwait
Old images are being shared with a false narrative of ‘62-degrees temperature in Kuwait’ - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-06-17T12:38:52+00:00
On Facebook, a few posts with claims that Kuwait has recorded the world’s highest temperature of 62 degrees Celsius this Saturday are going viral. In the post, three photos are enclosed, one showing the temperature recording of 62 degrees and the other two photos allegedly show the effects of the extreme heat. Let’s try to verify the authenticity of the claim made in the post.
Claim: Kuwait has recorded the world’s highest temperature of 62 degrees Celsius this Saturday.    
Fact:  The photo showing the temperature as 62 degrees Celsius is a photoshopped one. All of the photos enclosed in the post are old ones. Hence, the claim made in the post stands FALSE.    
The news that Kuwait has recorded a temperature of 62 degrees Celsius has been doing rounds for the past 3 years. So, in July 2017, “Kuwait Times” has published an article claiming the news to be fake. According to this article, the photo showing the temperature of 62 degrees is a photoshopped one and also, never in the history, the temperature in Kuwait reached 62 degrees Celsius.
Another photo showing the cars burnt is from Arizona, USA. As per the fact-check article published by Snopes.com, the cars were burnt due to fire from a construction site nearby and the cars parked in the vicinity were burnt.
This photo was also in circulation with the claim that the cars have melted in Saudi Arabia due to the extreme heat of 52-degree Celsius. AltNews had written a fact-check article on it.
The photo showing traffic signals burnt is also an old one. It was found in a tweet dated July 7, 2017, by some Twitter user.
To sum it up, old images are being shared with a false narrative of ‘effect of 62-degrees Celsius temperature in Kuwait’.
Did you watch our Facebook live on Fake News (Misinformation)

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/06/62-degrees-temperature-FB-Post.jpg