URL: https://factly.in/old-image-of-akhilesh-yadav-serving-food-with-shoes-on-is-shared-as-from-recent-navratri-festivities
Old image of Akhilesh Yadav serving food with shoes on, is shared as from recent Navratri festivities - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-10-20T11:07:28+00:00
A post accompanying the image of former UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav serving food to a woman is being shared with a claim that Akhilesh Yadav served food to a woman with his footwear on, during Navratri festivities. The post alluded that Akhilesh disrespected the Hindu customs by doing so. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Image of Akhilesh Yadav disrespecting Hindu customs by serving food to a woman during Navratri with his shoes on.
Fact: This image is captured back in 2016 during the launch of the Hausala Nutrition Scheme, which provides hot nutritious meals to pregnant women & malnourished children. News agencies reported that people were not pleased with Akhilesh wearing footwear while serving food to pregnant woman, as Akhilesh’s feet can be seen close to the food plate. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
This is an old image and has nothing to do with Navratri. Reverse image search of the photo yielded multiple news articles which published the same image back in 2016. These articles can be read here and here. As per these articles, the image was captured during the launch of the Hausala Nutrition Scheme, which provides hot nutritious meals to pregnant women & malnourished children.
However, these articles reported that people were not pleased with Akhilesh wearing footwear while serving food to pregnant woman as Akhilesh’s feet can be seen close to the food plate. Further, Akhilesh Yadav shared the same image on Twitter with a description that reads ‘Launched Hausala Nutrition Scheme, which will provide hot nutritious meals to pregnant women & malnourished children’. From this, we can conclude that the image is not related to recent Navratri festivities.
Launched Hausala Nutrition Scheme, which will provide hot nutritious meals to pregnant women & malnourished children pic.twitter.com/wy1n618FWI
To sum it up, an old image of Akhilesh Yadav serving food with shoes on, is shared as though from recent Navratri festivities.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/10/AkhileshY-DurgaP-Shoe-FB-Post.jpg