URL: https://factly.in/old-photo-of-a-demolished-temple-in-jaipur-falsely-linked-to-the-recent-anti-encroachment-drive-in-alwar
Old photo of a demolished temple in Jaipur falsely linked to the recent anti-encroachment drive in Alwar - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-04-27T14:36:55+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it is a picture of a Hindu temple demolished in Rajasthan’s Alwar. A few other users were sharing the photo mentioning it as the 300-year-old temple. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Picture of the 300-year-old Hindu temple demolished in Alwar, Rajasthan.
Fact: The post shared an old photo of a demolished Hindu temple in Jaipur, Rajasthan. This incident took place in 2015, during the BJP government’s rule in Rajasthan. As part of the Metro rail construction in Jaipur, the district authorities and Jaipur Metro Rail Corporation (JMRC) demolished two temples in Jaipur. The photo shared in the post is old and has nothing to do with the recent anti-encroachment drive in Alwar. Hence, the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the same photo was found in an article published by the ‘India Times’ news website on 12 June 2015. They reported it as the visuals of a demolished temple in Jaipur. According to the article, the 200-year-old Rojgareshwar temple in the Chaupur area of Jaipur was demolished as part of the metro rail construction in the city. Amidst massive protests, District authorities and Jaipur Metro Rail Corporation (JMRC) had reportedly demolished two temples for the construction of Metro in Jaipur.
Reporting the same, a few other news websites published articles in 2015. They can be seen here and here. This incident took place in 2015, during the Vasundare Raje-led BJP government’s rule in Rajasthan.
To sum it up, an old photo of a demolished temple in Jaipur was falsely linked to the recent demolition of temples in Alwar.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/04/300-year-old-Hindu-temple-demolished-in-Alwar-Claim.jpg