URL: https://factly.in/old-images-of-flood-hit-streets-falsely-shared-as-the-condition-of-jee-and-neet-examination-centres
Old images of flood-hit streets falsely shared as the condition of JEE and NEET examination centres - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-09-02T12:58:04+00:00
A collage with the images of flood-hit streets is being shared on social media claiming it as the condition of examination centres conducting JEE and NEET exams in the country. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Images of flood-hit JEE and NEET 2020 examination centres in India.
Fact: Images shared in the post shows the flood-hit streets from different parts of India in the past. They are not JEE and NEET examination centres as claimed in the post. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Image-1:
On reverse image search, we found the same photo in an article published by ‘Patrika’ news website in 2016. It is mentioned in the article that a school in Allahabad closed because of the heavy rains. So, this photo is not a recent one.
Image-2:
On reverse image search, we found the same photo in an article published by ‘News18’ website on ‘31 August 2017’. In the article, it is mentioned that the photo shows the flood-hit street in Mumbai. It is also mentioned that this photo was shot on ‘29 August 2017’.
Image-3:
On reverse image search, we found the same photo in an article published by ‘Jagran’ news website on ‘4 August 2019’. In the article, it is mentioned that the photo shows a flooded street in Haridwar.
Image-4:
On reverse image search, we found the same photo in an article published by ‘Jagran’ news website on ‘09 July 2019’. It is mentioned in the article that photo shows the flood-hit street in Patna, Bihar.
To sum it up, old images of flood-hit streets from different locations in India are now falsely shared as the condition of examination centres conducting JEE and NEET exams.
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/09/Condition-of-JEE-and-NEET-exam-centers-claim.jpg