URL: https://factly.in/old-and-unrelated-pictures-shared-as-the-latest-pictures-of-imran-khan-after-he-was-shot-at-during-gujranwala-rally
Old and unrelated pictures shared as the latest pictures of Imran Khan after he was shot at during Gujranwala rally - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-11-03T16:28:17+00:00
Multiple photos are being shared on social media claiming them as the latest pictures of former Pakistan PM Imran Khan after he was shot at during a rally in Gujranwala, Pakistan. They can be seen here and here. Few news channels including the ‘News 24’ channel have shared similar pictures stating them to be the latest pictures of Imran Khan. Let’s verify the claims made in these posts.
Claim: Latest pictures of Imran Khan after after he was shot at during a rally in Gujranwala, PakistanFact: The first photo was taken in 2014 when Imran Khan was holding the Azadi March rally against Nawaz Sharif’s government in Pakistan. The other photo was taken in 2013 when Imran Khan was injured after falling from a makeshift stage during a campaign rally in Lahore. The photos shared in these posts are old and do not show the latest pictures after the recent attack. Hence, the claims made in the posts is FALSE.
Photo 1:
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the same photo was found published on the official Twitter handle of Imran Khan on 17 August 2014. Imran Khan published this photo with the description, “Night at the dharna”. When we searched for further details of this photo, we found that the photo was taken during the Azadi March, a rally launched by Imran Khan’s PTI party demanding the resignation of then Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. Hence, it can be confirmed that the photo shared in the post is old and does not show the latest pictures of Imran Khan after he was shot at.
Night at the dharna. pic.twitter.com/5ppIGJAs1S
Photo 2: (Archived)
On reverse image search, the same photo was found in an article published by the ‘Express’ news website on 07 May 2013. The description of the photo states, “Imran Khan suffered head injuries following the fall.” According to the article, the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) Party Chairman Imran Khan suffered an injury to his head after falling off from a makeshift stage during a rally in Lahore. Reporting the same, Al Jazeera published a video showing similar visuals in May 2013. This incident reportedly took place while campaigning for the 2013 General Elections in Pakistan. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the photo shared in the post is old and does not show the latest pictures of Imran Khan.
Former Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan suffered a bullet injury in the leg after he was shot at during a rally in Gujranwala, Pakistan. The Latest visuals of Imran Khan after suffering a bullet injury during the recent attack can be seen here and here.
To sum it up, old and unrelated pictures are being shared as the latest pictures of Imran Khan after he was shot at during a rally in Gujranwala, Pakistan.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/11/Imran-Khans-latest-picture-after-suffered-bullet-injury-during-the-Wazirabad-rally-Claim-1.jpg