URL: https://factly.in/old-and-unrelated-images-are-being-attributed-to-the-recent-communal-violence-in-tripura
Old and unrelated images are being attributed to the recent communal violence in Tripura - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-10-29T10:24:54+00:00
In the last few days, there have been reports of communal violence in Tripura. In this context, a group of images is being shared on social media attributing them to these recent incidents. Few posts which shared such images can be seen here,  here, here, here, and here. Let’s fact-check the authenticity of these images.
Claim: Images of recent communal violence in Tripura.
Fact: Although there have been recent incidents of communal violence reported from Tripura, these viral images have nothing to do with them. While most of the images have nothing to do with Tripura, couple of images are related to clashes which erupted between BJP & CMP activists last month. Most of the other images are related to CAA protests in Delhi, Guwahati, etc. Hence the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
Image 1:
This is image is related to clashes which broke out between workers of BJP and CPM supporters in Agartala in September 2021. Reverse image search of this photo yielded multiple news articles which reported the same image. Indian express reported the same image on 8 September 2021, the description of the image reads ‘Vehicles in flames after clashes between BJP supporters and CPM activists in Agartala’. The image is credited to PTI.
‘Fresh clashes between workers of the ruling BJP and Opposition CPM in Tripura left ten persons injured, two party offices gutted, a few others vandalised and at least six vehicles set on fire’ Indian Express reported. Few other news article which reported the same image can be read here and here.
Image 2:
This image shows a procession carried out by Vishwa Hindu Parishad in Jadavpur, Kolkata to celebrate Ram Navami back in 2018. Reverse image search of this photo yielded multiple news articles which reported the same image. Hindustan Times published the same image and the description associated with the image reads ‘VHP supporters take out a religious procession to celebrate Ram Navami in, Jadavpur area in Kolkata, on March 25, 2018’. Further, the image is credited to ‘Samir Jana / HT Photo’.
Image 3:
Back in November 2020, the central government announced that around 35,000 Bru tribals from Mizoram will be rehabilitated in the Panisagar area of Tripura. Following the decision, locals of the Panisagar protested which eventually led to police firing. This particular image shared in the viral post is related to this protest. Times Now published the same image in its report about the protests.
Few other news reports which covered the same protests also published the same image, these news articles can be read here and here.
Image 4:
This image is actually from the CAA & NRC protests back in February 2020 in Delhi. Reverse image search of the photo yielded multiple news articles which published the same image attributing it to the protests that followed the enactment of CAA. Taking a cue from these articles, further search led us to the same on Getty Images, a stock image repository. The description with this image confirms that this image shows protests carried out in Delhi in November 2020 against the CAA. The image is credited to Sajjad Hussain/AFP.
Few other news articles which attributed it to the 2020 CAA protests can be read here and here.
Image 5:
This image is actually from the CAA & NRC protests back in December 2019 in Assam. Reverse image search of the photo yielded multiple news articles which published the same image attributing it to the protests that followed the enactment of CAA. India Today published the same image in one of its reports and the image is credited to PTI.
Other news articles which attributed the same image to CAA protests in Assam can be read here.
Image 6:
Reverse image search of the photo yielded news articles which reported the same image. As per Times of India article, the image is related to the violence which took place between BJP and CPM party supporters in Agartala, Tripura last month.
Another news article which published the same image attributing it to the BJP and CPM clashes which happened last month can be read here. Official twitter handle of AITC Tripura also shared the same image on 08 September 2021.
VHP organized a rally in Panisagar, subdivision of North Tripura protesting the recent attacks on Hindus and Durga pandals in Bangladesh. And there have also been reports of  attacks on mosques and shops of Muslims by VHP activists in Panisagar, Rowa and other parts of Tripura. In this context, few videos and images are being shared claiming that a Mosque has been set on fire in Panisagar. However, we could not find the authentic source of the viral images and videos. Tripura police clarified that no such incident happened at any Mosque in Panisagar, they also shared images of a Mosque in Panisagar which shows the Mosque in good condition.
Tripura Police appeals to all not to spread rumours.Below are photographs of masjid in Panisagar. It is evident that masjid is safe and secure. pic.twitter.com/kp1oCEBa8T
To sum it up, old and unrelated images are being attributed to the recent communal violence in Tripura.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/10/Tripura-Hindu-Muslim-Riots-FB-post.jpg