URL: https://factly.in/old-image-is-shared-as-farmers-entered-delhi-to-participate-in-tractor-rally
Old image is shared as farmers in Delhi to participate in tractor rally - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-01-25T11:18:23+00:00
In view of the proposed tractor rally by protesting farmers on 26 January 2021 against the new farm laws, a social media post accompanying an image of a large gathering of people is being widely shared across social media platforms with a claim that the image shows farmers who have entered Delhi to participate in the rally. Through this article let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Image showing a large number of farmers who have entered Delhi to participate in the protest on 26 January 2021.
Fact: This is an old image. Few social media users shared the same image back in 2017. It is true that farmers from different parts of the country are heading to Delhi to participate in the proposed tractor rally, but this image has nothing to do with them. Hence the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
Reverse image search of the photo in the post led us to a few old social media posts which shared the same image. A 2017 social media post that shared a similar image, was digitally created by placing a man’s image on top of the image being shared now. A large gathering similar to the one in the post can be seen here.
Further reverse image search also led us to a 2017 YouTube video that carried visuals similar to the image in the post. All these establish that the image is old and is not related to the ongoing farmers’ protest. However, we could any find credible information regarding the location & the context of this image.
At the same time, it is true that farmers from across the country have reached Delhi to participate in the tractor rally on Republic Day. In the light of the proposed tractor rally by farmers in Delhi on 26 January 2021 opposing the new farm laws, posts like these are being shared with misleading claims.
To sum it up, an old image is passed off as farmers who reached Delhi to participate in the tractor rally.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/01/Farmers-Delhi-FB-Post.jpg