URL: https://factly.in/old-unrelated-images-are-shared-as-assam-congress-leader-arrested-for-possession-of-ammunition
Old unrelated images are shared as Assam Congress leader arrested for possession of ammunition - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-06-18T14:31:53+00:00
A post accompanying a photo collage of a couple of images wherein one image shows a man in handcuffs whereas the other shows bullets and grenades are being shared on social media. The post claims that Assam’s Congress leader Amjad Ali was caught with ammunition.  Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of Assam’s Congress leader Amjad Ali who was caught with ammunition.
Fact: The image of a man in handcuffs actually shows a Bangladeshi madrasa teacher who was arrested for alleged sexual harassment of a student, who eventually committed suicide back in 2018. The other image shows ammunition recovered from militants in Jammu & Kashmir after a brief exchange of fire back in 2018. Both these images have nothing to do with Assam. Also, there are no recent reports of Assam Congress leader getting arrested for possession of ammunition. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Reverse image search of the photo of the man in handcuffs yielded few blogs which shared the same image back in 2018. As per these blogs, the man in handcuffs is Mubarak Hossain, a 28-year-old madrasa teacher from Mymensingh, Bangladesh and he was arrested for alleged sexual harassment of a student, who eventually committed suicide. These blogs can be read here and here. A Bangladeshi newspaper also reported the incident back in 2018.
Further, the image of ammunition actually shows ammunition recovered from militants in Jammu & Kashmir after a brief exchange of fire back in 2018. Reverse image search of the photo led us to a tweet by J&K police which shared the same image in 2018.
A brief exchange of fire  on the outskirts of Srinagar city. Three suspected militants  arrested among them one is injured.Arms and ammunition recovered. Investigations started. pic.twitter.com/lT9AoRnu5H
There are no recent news articles stating that Assam’s Congress leader Amjad Ali was caught with ammunition. Further, the police personnel in the image can be seen wearing a blue colour uniform whereas the Assam police uniform is not blue but Khaki. From all these pieces of evidence, it is evident that two unrelated images are being shared with a false narrative associating them with Assam Congress. When the same image went viral back in 2018, Boom, a fact-checking agency debunked it then.
To sum it up, old and unrelated images are shared as Assam Congress leader arrested for possession of ammunition.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/06/Assam-Congress-leader-Bombs-FB-Post.jpg