URL: https://factly.in/old-image-from-canada-is-shared-as-sikhs-offering-langar-in-ukraine-amidst-the-ongoing-russia-ukraine-conflict
Old image from Canada is shared as Sikhs offering Langar in Ukraine amidst the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-02-27T04:15:43+00:00
Amid the ongoing tensions between Russia and Ukraine, an image is being widely shared on social media claiming that it shows Sikhs offering Langar in Ukraine in these difficult times. Let’s verify the claim being made in these posts.
Claim: Sikhs offering Langar in Ukraine amidst the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict
Fact: The image of Sikhs offering Langar is old and is available on the internet at least since 2017. ‘We The Sikhs’ uploaded the same image on their Facebook and Twitter profiles on 06 August 2018 with the the description ‘Canada’s first Free Food Truck – Guru Nanak Dev Ji’s LANGAR – Goodbye Hunger.’  Though there are reports of Sikhs offering Langar on train for students escaping from Ukraine, this image is not related to the current conflict. Hence the claim made in the post in MISLEADING.
When the image was run through Google Reverse Image search, the same photo was found to be shared on social media at least since December 2017. Also, ‘We The Sikhs’ uploaded the same image on their Facebook and Twitter profiles, on 06 August 2018, with the description – “Canada’s first Free Food Truck – Guru Nanak Dev Ji’s LANGAR – Goodbye Hunger.”
A similar food truck can be found in many visuals from 2016. Some of those visuals can be seen here, here, and here. Also, the phone number of ‘Sikh Sewa Society Toronto’ can be seen on the truck.
However, there are recent reports of Sikhs offering Langar on the train for students escaping from Ukraine. Those news articles can be read here and here.
To sum it up, the posted Langar photo is an old one and is from Canada. It is not related to Ukraine.
A great believer in democracy, Bharath is convinced that the citizens of this country have a huge role to play in making it successful and effective. But he observes that with misinformation taking centre stage in the socio-political discourse, the very foundation of democracy is at threat. The shared belief that every citizen has the right to factual information without bias is what made Bharath associate with Factly since its inception. He heads Operations and Fact-checking projects at Factly.
Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/02/Sikhs-Offering-Langar-in-Ukraine-Post-858x1024.jpg