URL: https://factly.in/old-image-is-being-shared-as-nupur-sharma-visited-a-temple-after-suspension-from-the-bjp
Old image is being shared as Nupur Sharma visiting a temple after suspension from the BJP - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-06-15T12:50:28+00:00
In light of the Prophet remarks row, a social media post accompanying an image of BJP spokesperson Nupur Sharma performing rituals in a temple is being widely shared with a claim that the image shows Nupur Sharma’s recent visit to a temple after being suspended from the party. Through this article, let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Recent image from Nupur Sharma’s visit to a temple after suspension from the party.
Fact: The image is actually from Nupur Sharma’s visit to Ujjain temple. She shared the same image on her twitter account on 29 April 2022 whereas she was suspended from the BJP on 05 June 2022, which proves the image is related to her temple visit much before her suspension.  Hence the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
Earlier on 27 May 2022, speaking in a TV debate, BJP spokesperson Nupur Sharma made controversial remarks on Prophet Muhammad. And eventually following a global outrage, she has been suspended from the party on 05 June 2022.
However, the image shared in the post is from her temple visit in Ujjain on 29 April 2022, almost a month before she made those controversial remarks. Reverse image search of the photo shared in the post led us to a tweet by Nupur Sharma, through which she shared the same image.
अपने दो दिवसीय उज्जैन के प्रवास दौरान मुझे हरसिद्दी माता, काल भैरव, श्री महाकालेश्वर, मंगलनाथ, श्री ओंकारेश्वर व ममलेश्वर जी के दर्शन व पूजा अर्चना का सौभाग्य प्राप्त हुआ।प्रदोष तिथि के दिन भगवान भोलेनाथ ने अपने द्वार बुला कर धन्य कर दिया। 🙏#JaiShriMahakaal #HarHarMahadevॐ pic.twitter.com/VaZQ3kdDu7
Further, we could not find any reports of Nupur Sharma visiting any temple after being suspended from the party.
To sum it up, an old image is being shared as Nupur Sharma visiting a temple after suspension from the BJP.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/06/Nupur-Sharma-Visits-Temple-FB-Post.jpg