URL: https://factly.in/old-photo-of-a-man-planting-saplings-on-a-uttarakhand-road-is-shared-as-that-from-bihar
Old photo of a man planting saplings on a Uttarakhand road is shared as that from Bihar - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-07-24T15:29:23+00:00
Photo of a person sowing rice saplings (paddy) on a mud-filled street road is being shared on social media claiming it as the condition of roads in the state of Bihar. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Bihar people sowing rice saplings (paddy) on the mud-filled street roads.
Fact: The person shown in the photo is Praveen Koshiyari, a native of Balvakot village in Dharchula district, Uttarakhand. He sowed the rice saplings (paddy) on the mud-filled street road to grab the attention of Uttarakhand state government about the condition of the roads in the state. The photo has nothing to do with Bihar. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar image was found in an article published by ‘Uttarakhand News Network’ news website on ‘16 July 2015’. In the article, it is mentioned that the incident shown in the photo took place in Balvakot village of Uttarakhand state during the year 2015. Tired of inconvenience caused by the mud-filled and waterlogged streets in his village, a man called Praveen Koshiyari sowed the rice saplings (Paddy) on the street road. He chose this unique way of protest to grab the attention of the Uttarakhand state government about the condition of roads in the state. Article with similar context showing the same photo was found in a news portal website ‘The Logical Indian’.
Earlier, when the same image was shared as people sowing crops on the roads of Telangana, ‘FACTLY’ has debunked the claim and has written a fact-check article that can be read here.
To sum it up, an old photo of a person planting saplings on the roads in Uttarakhand is falsely shared as that from Bihar.
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/07/Bihar-people-sowing-paddy-on-street-road-claim.jpg