URL: https://pesacheck.org/partly-false-this-is-not-a-photo-of-youngsters-rigathi-gachagua-and-william-ruto-a8d083ff865d
PARTLY FALSE: This is not a photo of youngsters Rigathi Gachagua and William Ruto | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-10-16T09:30:13.219Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post claiming to show an image of Kenyan Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua and President William Ruto in their younger days is PARTLY FALSE.
The text accompanying the image reads: “Photo of Rigathi Gachagua and William Ruto when they were young”.
The particular image shows two young men in matching shirts, coats and trousers.
But does this image show the first and second in command in their younger years? We did some digging.
A reverse image search led us to these two websites which pointed us to the original source of the photo, which was first posted on DP Gachagua’s Facebook page on 7 August 2022.
In the Facebook post, Gachagua identifies the subjects as himself and his high school classmate Simon Guandaru, alias Hercules. Gachagua appreciates Guandaru and their 44-year friendship, from their high school days to the DP’s rise to the second highest seat in the land.
“In the most defining moment, Hercules joined me at my rural home to keep me company, encourage me and be by my side on the voting day as history unveils a village boy, son of peasant freedom fighters with no other reference to his name is elected as the second Deputy President of this great republic. Thanks, Hercules. You have always been there for me. I don’t take our friendship for granted,” Gachagua wrote in the post.
The deputy president attached a recent photo of himself and Guandaru in front of a helicopter, alongside the image of their younger selves.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post claiming to show an image of Kenyan Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua and President William Ruto in their youth and finds it to be PARTLY FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*e6MtNj_nEBo2FNMR