URL: https://pesacheck.org/partly-false-some-of-these-images-do-not-show-the-bombing-in-mendi-and-the-victims-a9daf5a813bb
PARTLY FALSE: Some of these images do not show the bombing in Mendi and the victims | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-11-28T12:42:33.637Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post claiming to show the bombing in Mendi, West Wollega, and the victims is PARTLY FALSE.
The pictures are accompanied by a post that reads: “Share if you care for the people. Attack on gathered people on Mendi city Market. The death toll has reached over 300. The massacre of the innocent is the work of the Ethiopian government. #Ethiopia #Government is bombing and burning the town of Mandi, West Oromia. Today is a market day in the town. Stop Genocide in Civilian Oromo People.”
The war between the Ethiopian federal government and the Oromo Liberation Army (OLA) is ongoing. Reports in November 2022 indicate that dozens of civilians were killed in airstrikes at Mendi, West Wollega.
But as seen here and here, Google reverse image search results established that some of the images are unrelated to the drone attack in Mendi, West Wollega zone of the Oromia region.
The first image was debunked along with other pictures by BBC on 20 November 2020 as it was used in relation to the conflict in Tigray. The picture shows the Uzbekistan Air Force. Image credit is given to Anthony Pecchi.
Two images are similar and were shared on the Al Jazeera website on 29 November 2020, and are of killings in Nigeria.
The third image is a poster and the fourth image is not clear. However, as seen here and here, Google reverse image search results show the fourth image was used by different social media users in relation to the drone attack in Mendi. No credible source of information is found in this regard.
PesaCheck has examined the Facebook post with images claiming to show the bombing in Mendi, West Wollega, and the victims and found it to be PARTLY FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*GsARh2reCemPaPEy