URL: https://pesacheck.org/partly-false-one-of-these-images-is-unrelated-to-the-fighting-in-northern-ethiopia-42520d5d5b53
PARTLY FALSE: One of these images is unrelated to the fighting in northern Ethiopia | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-10-16T08:30:34.757Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with two images claiming to show fighting in the northern parts of Ethiopia is PARTLY FALSE.
Parts of the Amharic text accompanying the picture translates to; “Breaking. The strongholds of TPLF are being broken. According to the information obtained from the place, the allied force led by our heroic defence army is carrying out an amazing adventure on the Raya front. The terrorist group that does not care about the people is committing international war crimes against the people.”
The post adds: “It made forts in the farmer’s house and tried to exterminate the people. But its anti-people ambitions were thwarted by our People’s Defense Forces. On this front, we have heard that until this morning, more than three strongholds that the TPLF used to rely on have been destroyed.”
Similar claims were shared here and here.
However, as seen here and here, results from Google reverse image searches revealed that one of the images is old and unrelated to the fighting in the northern parts of Ethiopia.
The first picture was shared on different websites in 2015 as seen here and here.
The same image was published on this website in 2020.
As seen here, the second picture was posted on the FDRE Defense Force (Ethiopian National Defense Force) verified Facebook page on 14 September 2022. It is of Ethiopian soldiers.
Despite the efforts made by the African Union to solve the war in the northern parts of Ethiopia through peace talks, the war is ongoing.
PesaCheck has examined the Facebook post with two images claiming to show fighting in the northern parts of Ethiopia and finds it to be PARTLY FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*5BWtWsCAknl4kXoQ