URL: https://pesacheck.org/partly-false-one-of-these-images-is-not-related-to-president-kenyattas-tour-in-mt-kenya-region-7f3b565efbd6
PARTLY FALSE: One of these images is not related to President Kenyatta’s tour in Mt Kenya region | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-02-05T09:41:14.255Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with images claiming to show police in Nyeri arresting youth who were allegedly paid by the member of parliament for Mathira constituency, Rigathi Gachagua, to disrupt President Uhuru Kenyatta’s visit in the region is PARTLY FALSE.
The images are combined together into a collage; the image on top showing police officers escorting an individual in a red shirt, presumably, after arresting him. The image on the bottom shows Mr Gachagua gesturing as he speaks into a microphone.
The author of the post accompanying the photos claims Mr Gachagua paid 100 youth KShs 500 to heckle the President in Chaka town, with chants of Deputy President William Ruto’s name.
The author adds that he is happy that police uncovered the plot. “If you want to blackmail us that the ground is for Ruto….Why pay youths to chant? Shame on you…….!!!!” reads the post.
President Kenyatta was on a four-day working tour in the Central Kenya region from January 29, 2021, which also saw him meet political leaders to drum up support for the constitutional amendment bill in support of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI).
However, a Google reverse image search shows that the photo showing police arrest is not related to President Kenyatta’s tour in the region.
The image comes up alongside several news reports, one of them by The Standard, published on August 17, 2019.
The article is about chaos which disrupted a meeting by women leaders belonging to the ‘Inua Mama Jenga Taifa’ faction which supports the DP’s bid in 2022. The meeting had been hosted by Nyeri Woman Representative Rahab Mukami in Nyeri Town constituency.
The caption on the photo states that the image shows police arresting one of the three activists who disrupted the event at D.E.B Primary School within Nyeri town. The photo is credited to The Standard photographer, Mose Sammy.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with images claiming to show police in Nyeri arresting youth who had allegedly been paid by Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua, to disrupt President Uhuru Kenyatta’s visit in the region, and finds it to be PARTLY FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*64ofmOjY2M-t1uBP