URL: https://pesacheck.org/partly-false-one-of-these-images-is-not-related-to-the-2023-stampede-in-yemen-9f1ee3cc8edf
PARTLY FALSE: One of these images is not related to the 2023 stampede in Yemen | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2023-05-18T20:38:19.910Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with images supposedly of the aftermath of the May 2023 stampede in Yemen is PARTLY FALSE.
At least 85 people died and over 300 were injured during a stampede at a charity event in the war-ravaged country, according to media reports.
The translation of the Amharic text accompanying the picture reads: “In Yemen, at least 78 people lost their lives due to stampedes to accept Zakat al-Fitr, Sadaqat. It is very sad. Yemen is a country with more than 17 million hungry people who are in the midst of a tragic famine and war. Saudi Arabia and its allies are bombing the country in fighting the Houthis. Many years have passed since the people of Yemen began to live in severe and brutal living conditions including suffering from starvations.”
The post adds: “Although Yemeni businessmen, who are considered to be in a better position, gathered the needy in a school to distribute Zakat al-Fitr, more than 78 people died and were injured, instantly due to stamping while they tried to receive aid. Ironically, the aid distributed was only 10 dollars per person, but they lost their lives while trying to get it. Yemen, which is surrounded by many rich Arab Muslim countries, is an example of famine and poverty. May Allah have mercy on them and let Yemen’s suffering end.”
However, as seen here and here, Google reverse image searches established that one of the pictures is old.
The first picture was shared on the Alamy website with the caption, “Yemenis receive food rations provided by a local charity, in Sanaa, Yemen, Thursday, April 13, 2017…”
The second photo is related to the May 2023 stampede in Yemen and was published on this website. The image was credited to Ansar Allah Houthi Media Office via the Associated Press.
PesaCheck has examined the Facebook post supposedly of the aftermath of the May 2023 stampede in Yemen and finds it to be PARTLY FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/1*g1J78IyIMQPIPm0jBmtw4g.png