URL: http://pesacheck.org/partly-false-one-of-these-images-does-not-show-scenes-from-the-russia-ukraine-war-22ff9afccd9b
PARTLY FALSE: One of these images does not show scenes from the Russia-Ukraine war | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-02-28T19:52:48.597Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with images claiming to show scenes from the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine is PARTLY FALSE.
“Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that his country is on its own. He shared his view that Ukraine has been left alone to fight against Russia. The United States and its allies stated that they do not allow Russia to violate the boundaries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. Yet they said that they will not enter Ukraine’s territory and fight against Russia,” part of the post in Amharic reads.
However, Google reverse image search results as seen here and here reveal that one of the images does not show scenes from the Russia-Ukraine war.
The first image was shared on the VOA website on 30 June 2017 and shows Iran’s S-200 missile. The description of the image reads, “A long-range S-200 missile is fired in a military drill in the port city of Bushehr, Iran, Dec. 29, 2016. Tehran has been increasing its military expenditures in recent years.” The same image was published on the Aljazeera website and image credit is given to Amir Kholousi/ISNA via AP.
The second image was used on the BBC website in February 2022 and shows Ukraine’s crashed aircraft. The description of the same image on the Play Crazy Game website reads, “Rescue workers work at the scene of the crash of an aircraft of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, which, according to the State Emergency Service, was shot down in the Kiev region.” The image is credited to State Emergency Service/Reuters.
A military clash between Russia and Ukraine broke out in February 2022.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with images claiming to show scenes from the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine and found it to be PARTLY FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*XL2XE_VY0v9Kmns1