URL: https://pesacheck.org/partly-false-one-of-these-two-photos-does-not-show-the-garissa-solar-plant-in-northeastern-kenya-9feadbf39b14
PARTLY FALSE: One of these two photos does not show the Garissa Solar Plant in northeastern Kenya | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-12-16T08:58:09.332Z

Listen
Share
A tweet with two photos claiming to show the Garrisa solar plant in northeastern Kenya is PARTLY FALSE.
The Garissa Solar Plant is the largest grid connected solar power plant in East and Central Africa and contributes about 2 percent of the national energy mix.
So, do the two tweeted pictures show the Garissa Solar Power Plant?
Image 1
A reverse image search of the first photo shows that it is from the Garissa Solar Power Plant in Kenya. The power plant was launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta on December 13, 2019.
Image 2
A reverse image search of the second picture shows a solar power plant in Webberville, Texas in the United States. The Webberville solar farm is a 35-megawatt power plant located on a 380-acre site and is run by Austin Energy.
PesaCheck has looked into a tweet with two photos claiming to show the Garissa Solar Power Plant in northeastern Kenya and finds that it is PARTLY FALSE.
By partnering with Facebook and similar social media platforms, third-party fact-checking organisations like PesaCheck are helping to sort fact from fiction. We do this by giving the public deeper insight and context to posts they see in their social media feeds.
Have you spotted what you think is fake news or false information on Facebook? Here’s how you can report. And, here’s more information on PesaCheck’s methodology for fact-checking questionable content.
This fact-check was written by PesaCheck fact-checker James Okong’o and edited by PesaCheck deputy editor Rose Lukalo. It was approved for publication by managing editor Enock Nyariki.
PesaCheck is East Africa’s first public finance fact-checking initiative. It was co-founded by Catherine Gicheru and Justin Arenstein, and is being incubated by the continent’s largest civic technology and data journalism accelerator: Code for Africa. It seeks to help the public separate fact from fiction in public pronouncements about the numbers that shape our world, with a special emphasis on pronouncements about public finances that shape government’s delivery of Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) public services, such as healthcare, rural development and access to water/sanitation. PesaCheck also tests the accuracy of media reportage. To find out more about the project, visit pesacheck.org.
PesaCheck is an initiative of Code for Africa, through its innovateAFRICA fund, with support from Deutsche Welle Akademie, in partnership with a coalition of local African media and other civic watchdog organisations.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*zaDzRRg7I9qkkQ-k