URL: https://pesacheck.org/partly-false-most-of-these-images-do-not-show-an-attack-in-wollega-in-2022-730f93f3738a
PARTLY FALSE: Most of these images do not show an attack in Wollega in 2022 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-02-22T18:27:23.682Z

Listen
Share
These Facebook images claiming to show an attack in Wollega in 2022 are PARTLY FALSE.
“Death and its aftermath are not shocking anymore as they have become part of our daily routine. The murderer, as usual, kills the innocents. Then he will take selfies with the corpses of the innocent civilians that he killed and with their burning properties heroically. We heard that 168 innocent people were shot dead in Wollega and 80 were found buried in a mass grave,” part of the post in Amharic reads. Five images are attached to the post.
However, Google reverse image search results of the images as seen here, here, here, and here reveal that the images used to support the claim are old.
The first image was shared on the Otago Daily Times website on 22 January 2010. The description of the image reads, “Tears run down a woman’s face as she attends a group prayer in a makeshift shelter in the street in Port-au-Prince.” The image credit is given to AP.
The second image was shared online with different contexts before the claim under investigation was made. For instance, it was shared on this Twitter account on 26 October 2019 and claims that the image shows Qimant people who were killed by the Amhara extremists. Also, it was published on the Ayyaantuu News website on 1 February 2020 and claims that the image shows “innocent civilians who were killed by the government security forces in Gidami.”
The third image was shared on this Facebook page on 7 November 2021 to support the allegation that said, “Innocent people in Konso, Ethiopia, were killed and their houses burned down by the armed group.”
The fourth image was posted on this Facebook account to support a similar claim. However, the post noted that the image is a file photo. Reverse image search results did not give detailed information about the image.
The fifth image shows a candle with a caption that says, “168 innocent.”
Although the images used to support the claim are not related to the current situation in Wollega, there is a conflict in the area.
“The official said that it is not yet known whether the 168 abducted people including those 87 people who were allegedly killed in mass by the gunmen in the Oromia Region of Kelem Wollega Zone, Gidami Woreda, are dead or alive. The Zonal communications chief told Deutsche Welle that although Gidami could be liberated from the militants months later, the security forces have not yet confirmed the deaths, which were confirmed by an eyewitness,” Deutsche Welle’s report reads.
PesaCheck has looked into Facebook images claiming to show an attack in Wollega in 2022 and found them to be PARTLY FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*5s_X58GKJm6jRdsP