URL: https://pesacheck.org/partly-false-this-image-does-not-show-kalenjins-militia-armed-with-poisoned-bows-and-arrows-c6ce2c825edb
PARTLY FALSE: This image does not show Kalenjins militia armed with poisoned bows and arrows arrested in Eldoret by DCI | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-08-24T12:37:27.242Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post purportedly showing an image of Kalenjin militia arrested by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) in Eldoret, Kenya, in possession of poisoned bows and arrows is PARTLY FALSE.
“SAD NEWS: 5 Kalenjins militias armed with bows and poisoned arrows have been arrested by DCI in Eldoret. This is after they were caught issuing threats to Kikuyus in the town,” reads the post in part.
The post contains a quote in Swahili, allegedly by one of the suspects that translates into; “Even if you vote for Ruto and he loses, you will still face the consequences.”
The post adds: “Kikuyus in the region are now worried as it is now clear that even if they vote Ruto and he loses they will still face consequences.”
Similar claims were shared here and here.
Kenya has experienced election violence since the reintroduction of multi-party politics. According to a report by the independent National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC), the potential for violence remains high due to pre-existing conflicts and weak institutions, even as the country nears the 9 August 2022 polls.
A Google reverse image search of the photo in the claim, however reveals that it was shared by the National Police Service (NPS) in a Twitter thread dated 5 June 2022.
“In efforts to sustain an enabling environment for peaceful coexistence towards and beyond the General Elections, the @NPSOfficial_KE has deployed several measures including scrutiny of activities by users on social media platforms to curb triggers to violence and insecurity,” the thread reads in part.
“In one of our wins yesterday, Police officers from Njoro Police station arrested four suspects within Mauche Ward, Nakuru County and recovered a cache of 25 arrows. The arrests followed police investigations after a photo of the suspects wielding crude weapons was shared on a popular social media platform on 25th May 2022,” the thread adds.
NPS has urged the public to use social media platforms responsibly and to desist from acts that could trigger violence and other criminal activities in their neighbourhoods.
Neither the NPS, nor the media, have reported the arrest of anybody suspected of being a member of the alleged Kalenjin militia.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post purportedly showing an image of Kalenjin militia arrested by the DCI in Eldoret, in possession of poisoned bows and arrows, and finds it to be PARTLY FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*a8wrVBcPDyEMd5Oh