URL: https://pesacheck.org/partly-false-one-of-these-images-does-not-show-a-flood-in-addis-ababa-130a626b3a30
PARTLY FALSE: One of these images does not show a flood in Addis Ababa | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-08-31T12:29:28.080Z

Listen
Share
This image post claiming to show flooding in Addis Ababa on 18 August 2021 is PARTLY FALSE.
Written in Amharic and posted on Facebook, the post attaches two images to advance the claim; one of partially submerged buildings and the other of rescue workers at a site littered with debris.
“So far seven people have lost their lives owing to yesterday’s flood that was caused by heavy rain in Addis Ababa. The Addis Ababa Fire and Emergency Prevention and Rescue Commission commissioner Solomon Fisseha told Fana Broadcasting Corporate that damage to life and property are being investigated,” part of the post states.
The number of those injured would be announced by Commissioner Solomon that afternoon, the post adds.
However, Google reverse image search results reveal that one of the photos shows a rescue operation during the aftermath of an earthquake in Haiti, a Caribbean country.
The 7.2 magnitude earthquake cost 2,189 lives, the BBC reported in an August 2021 article in which the image of the rescuers is used.
Google reverse image search results reveal that the photo of a submerged building and vehicle shows the floods in Addis Ababa after torrential rains. Deputy mayor of the Addis Ababa city administration, Adanech Abiebie, posted the image on her verified Twitter account on 17 August 2021, expressing her grief regarding the destruction that followed the floods.
At least seven people died and the Mekane Yesus Seminary compound — a theological institution in Addis Ababa — which posted images of the incident taken from different angles — was damaged.
The incident was reported by different media outlets, as seen here and here.
PesaCheck has looked into two Facebook images claiming to show the aftermath of flooding in Addis Ababa and finds it to be PARTLY FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*JSlfl1wF6DATZBc9