URL: https://pesacheck.org/partly-false-these-images-do-not-show-the-benishangul-gumuz-army-and-an-ethiopian-helicopter-b685a6f33d2d
PARTLY FALSE: These images do not show the Benishangul Gumuz army and an Ethiopian helicopter | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-11-24T13:11:32.357Z

Listen
Share
Two of these images attached to a post claiming to show Benishangul Gumuz, Oromo and Tigray militants controlling areas in Ethiopia are FALSE.
The post in Afaan Oromoo reads in part, “Gumuzs have controlled many towns. Oromos and Tigrayans have also scored big goals and controlled many towns”.
The post directs users to a YouTube channel for further information with a link.
The post is accompanied by four images. Three of the images show armed men in military uniform in different areas, while the fourth is a picture of a helicopter landing.
Benishangul Gumuz is home to the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD), in which armed conflict was reported between the Ethiopian government forces and armed troops in the region.
Tigray forces claimed control of two big cities in Amhara regional state in early November 2021, while Oromo Liberation Army (OLA) also claimed victories in North and West Shoa as well as west Wollega, in Oromia regional state, in mid November 2021.
However, two images attached to the post claiming to show Benishangul Gumz, Oromo and Tigray forces controlling towns are inaccurate.
Reverse image search results for the first picture shows these are members of the Sudan People’s Liberation Army in Opposition (SPLM-IO) in Garyah location in South Sudan and was first posted by a Facebook user in May 2017.
Google reverse image search results reveal that the second photo was attached to multiple tweets on 12 November 2021, and shows members of Tigray Defense Force (TDF) in unidentified locations. It was also attached to tweets here and here and was shared on Twitter on the same day as the post under investigation.
The third photo, reverse image search results show, is attached to posts related to the OLA. It was shared here and here, in November 2021 and shows OLA troops sitted on the ground in an unidentified location. In this post shared on 16 November, however, the image was captioned as OLA in Mieso and Ciro, in West Hararghe zone, Oromia regional state.
The fourth image shows a Senegalese helicopter in Dakar, according to the result of a reverse image search on Google. It was included in the Helicopter Database organised by Thomas Girke.
Information in the database shows the images of the Senegal Air Force helicopter Mi-24P at Dakar in February 2008, and was featured in the blog, World Military and Police Forces, profiling Senegal’s military aircraft.
PesaCheck has investigated images shared on Facebook claiming to show Benishangul, Oromos and Tigrayan troops controlling towns in Ethiopia and finds it to be PARTLY FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*jThjJ1VaQYAFKHvy