URL: https://pesacheck.org/partly-false-two-of-the-images-do-not-show-an-attack-on-odessa-in-2022-c9be4f4c09bb
PARTLY FALSE: Two of the images do not show an attack on Odessa in 2022 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-05-20T14:31:36.950Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with images claiming to show a recent Russian attack on Odessa, Ukraine is PARTLY FALSE.
“Russia has been criticised for launching a rocket attack on a Ukrainian port city. The international media are reporting that the attack in the southern Ukrainian city of Odessa on Monday morning was devastating,” parts of the post in the Amharic text reads.
“You should know that the apartment building was destroyed and a 15-year-old boy lost his life, the city administration has said. President Zelenskyy also confirmed this. Russia’s attack has destroyed an Orthodox Church in Ukraine too. Authorities also condemned the attack,” the post adds.
Different media outlets like Anadolu Agency reported that Russia’s missile strikes on Odessa, the port city in Ukraine, led to the death of at least six people in April 2022. Prior to this attack, Russia hit facilities near Odessa. Although there were no casualties, the attack destroyed an oil refinery and three storage and lubricant facilities for fuel in Odessa.
Nevertheless, as seen here and here, Google reverse image search results reveal that two of the pictures are old and do not show the recent attack in Odessa.
The first image has been online since 2014. For instance, it was shared on the The Economic Times website on 13 May 2014. Image credit is given to AFP. The same image is on other websites such as this and this one.
The second image was uploaded on the iStock website on 23 July 2018 with a caption that says, “Russian attack helicopter Mi 28 armed with rockets bombs guns and able to fight day and night.”
As seen here and here, the same photo is published on other websites.
But a reverse image search using Google reveals that the third picture shows fire and smoke after airstrikes hit Odessa in April 2022. Image credit is attributed to Petros Giannakouris.
The same image was published on this website on 4 April 2022.
Since the beginning of the Ukraine-Russia war in February 2022, the death toll has exceeded 2,500 and more than 3,000 people injured. Also, the cost of the conflict is estimated to be 600 billion dollars.
PesaCheck has looked into the Facebook post with images claiming to show a Russian attack on Odessa and finds them to be PARTLY FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*cfvT2jcgqJkC5UWw