URL: https://pesacheck.org/partly-false-these-images-are-not-of-a-protest-in-ethiopias-mekelle-city-in-november-2022-b997dcb26af8
PARTLY FALSE: These images are not of a protest in Ethiopia’s Mekelle city in November 2022 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-12-07T15:05:14.650Z

Listen
Share
This Facebook post with images purporting to be of a protest in Ethiopia’s Mekelle city in November 2022 is PARTLY FALSE.
The photos are accompanied by Amharic text that translates to; “The people of Tigray protested against militants in Mekelle. The people of Tigray expressed their grievances in protest today. They raised their voices and said that militants who live in areas not controlled by the Defense Forces and especially those who live in Mekelle are preventing the grain sent for aid from reaching them properly; they said that it is enough! They are saying that the government is sending aid grains in bulk, but nothing has reached them! The people of Mekelle have been raising their voices since one o’clock in the morning. The aid grain was properly distributed in the areas controlled by the Defense Forces. So, they asked to properly distribute the aid that was sent to them too. The people also said that the oppression has to be stopped.”
Similar claim with the same images was shared by other social media users.
However, as seen here and here, Google reverse image search results established that two of the pictures are old and unrelated to the incident in the claim.
The first image was shared on the DW website on 27 July 2021 in the article, “Mekelle University students met their families.”
The second picture was posted on this Facebook account on 16 July 2019. “No trip to Mekelle is complete without a visit to the Martyrs’ Memorial Monument. The 167 ft. statue represents success and sacrifices made by Tegaru during the struggle against Derg,” the post reads.
All Google reverse image search results associated with the third image indicate it was published in November 2022.
International humanitarian organisations resumed aid to the Tigray region, whose capital is Mekelle, after the federal government and Tigray forces agreed to a cease-fire. However, there are media reports that the amount of aid available is not matching the demand.
PesaCheck has examined the Facebook images claiming to show a protest in Mekelle in November 2022 and found it to be PARTLY FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*YmKwpnvyPw6pNter