URL: https://pesacheck.org/partly-false-some-of-these-photos-are-not-from-west-pokot-37c18e9f532d
PARTLY FALSE: Some of these photos do not show the recent landslide in West Pokot | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2019-11-25T15:37:16.927Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with images claiming to show the November 23 landslide in West Pokot is PARTLY FALSE.
The post adds that the death toll from the landslide has risen to 51.
The Kenya Red Cross on November 23 confirmed that massive landslides have been reported in various parts of West Pokot.
Image One
A reverse image search of the first photo shows that it was first shared on Flickr in March 2018 after a landslide in Cusco Peru.
Image two
A reverse image search of the second image shows that it was taken in Gitugi, Murang’a County after a landslide in April 2018.
Image three
A reverse image search of the third image shows that it was taken in May 2018 after a landslide West Pokot. The photo was used in an article by the Standard dated May 4, 2018.
A reverse image search of the fourth and fifth images shows that the images are actually from the November 23 landslide in West Pokot and are credited to the Associated Press and Robert Manyara of Xinhua respectively.
PesaCheck has looked at a post with five photos that are purported to be from the November 2019 landslide in West Pokot and finds that it is PARTLY FALSE because three of the five photos are old photographs from past landslides from Kenya and Peru.
By partnering with Facebook and similar social media platforms, third-party fact-checking organisations like PesaCheck are helping to sort fact from fiction. We do this by giving the public deeper insight and context to posts they see in their social media feeds.
Have you spotted what you think is fake news or false information on Facebook? Here’s how you can report. And, here’s more information on PesaCheck’s methodology for fact-checking questionable content.
This fact-check was written by PesaCheck Researcher James Okong’o, was edited by PesaCheck Deputy Editor Ann Ngengere and was approved for publication by PesaCheck Managing Editor Eric Mugendi.
PesaCheck is East Africa’s first public finance fact-checking initiative. It was co-founded by Catherine Gicheru and Justin Arenstein, and is being incubated by the continent’s largest civic technology and data journalism accelerator: Code for Africa. It seeks to help the public separate fact from fiction in public pronouncements about the numbers that shape our world, with a special emphasis on pronouncements about public finances that shape government’s delivery of Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) public services, such as healthcare, rural development and access to water / sanitation. PesaCheck also tests the accuracy of media reportage. To find out more about the project, visit pesacheck.org.
PesaCheck is a joint initiative of Code for Africa, through its innovateAFRICA fund, with additional funding support from the International Budget Partnership (Kenya) and Twaweza, in partnership with a coalition of local media organisations, and the International Center for Journalists (ICFJ).

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*XnE2zFjv-L-k5-O8