URL: https://pesacheck.org/partly-false-this-image-does-not-show-a-mother-on-the-verge-of-death-following-the-war-in-tigray-a7346022e201
PARTLY FALSE: This image does not show a mother on the verge of death following the war in Tigray region | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-06-25T15:57:53.110Z

Listen
Share
A Twitter post claiming to show a starving, malnourished woman on the brink of death as a result of the war in Tigray region is PARTLY FALSE.
The photo shows a woman laying down, with veins popping out visible on her forehead and with a sunken face. The photo’s caption says that the woman is dying from hunger.
“A dying mother in Tigray laid motionlessly as a result of malnutrition. Hunger is used by Ethiopia as a weapons [sic] to exterminate the people of Tigray” reads the text accompanying the photo.
The photo, which has been circulating on social media platforms, has sparked a debate online about when it was taken. Some social media users supported the claim that the picture is representative of the situation in Tigray, Ethiopia, a region that has seen conflict since November 2020, while others argued that it was taken in 2016.
The conflict in Tigray has left over 350,000 people in catastrophic conditions, according to the Integrated Food Security Phase Classification (IPC) report. United Nations (UN) agencies have called for urgent life-saving actions to avert the looming famine in the region.
However, the photo in question is not linked to the ongoing war in the Tigray. PesaCheck’s research found the image was taken on 11 November, 1984, by a UN photographer named John Isaac. The photo can be found in the UN photo library, with the headline “Drought in Africa: Ethiopia.”
“Drought is ravaging the continent of Africa. And famine is a harsh reality for millions of people living there. Emergency food and water supplies are a first necessity. But for the long-term many complex problems — political as well as environmental — have to be solved.”
“A drought victim, newly-arrived at a camp in Makalle in northern Ethiopia, lies unconscious awaiting medical treatment,” the description of the photo on the UN website reads.
PesaCheck has looked into a Twitter post claiming to show a starved and malnourished woman on the brink of death as a result of the war in the Tigray region, and finds it to be PARTLY FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*R0inQwDbHBaoMY_9