URL: https://pesacheck.org/partly-false-these-images-of-bobi-wine-addressing-crowds-were-not-all-taken-during-the-covid-19-c7aca945661a
PARTLY FALSE: These images of Bobi Wine addressing crowds were not all taken during the COVID-19 pandemic | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-06-22T06:42:05.015Z

Listen
Share
A tweet with images claiming to show Robert Kyagulanyi, better known as Bobi Wine, addressing crowds amid the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic is PARTLY FALSE.
The post says Bobi Wine, one of the 2021 presidential candidates, should not act like a saint and blame the government for the escalating COVID-19 infections and deaths Uganda is experiencing.
The post reads, in part: “Hypocrisy is Bobi Wine who was telling people its okey (sic) to remove masks, bragged about pulling crowds amidst a pandemic now acts concerned about raising (sic) cases trying to blame the whole crisis on Gvt”.
During the January 2021 presidential election, Bobi Wine and security forces clashed on a number of occasions over political gatherings, which the government had banned to minimise the spread of the virus.
On some occasions during the campaigns, Bobi Wine and his supporters were seen not wearing masks, one of the measures the World Health Organization (WHO) adopted to prevent the spread of the virus.
Uganda recorded her first COVID-19 case in March 2020 and instituted measures including restricting religious and political gatherings and a total lockdown.
In November 2020, the government eased some of the restrictions and allowed the resumption of mass gatherings that were limited to 200 people with strict adherence to the guidelines put in place.
Following this, the electioneering period in the run-up to Uganda’s January 2021 polls was conducted during the COVID-19 pandemic. The 11 contestants for the presidency were urged to encourage their supporters to adhere to laid down protocols to contain the virus.
Bobi Wine was himself arrested and charged for flouting COVID-19 guidelines during campaign rallies. The pop star-turned-politician came second in the presidential race, according to results announced by the Electoral Commission.
In recent months, Uganda has experienced a surge in COVID-19 infections, leading to a total lockdown in June 2021.
The post in question claims the three images were taken during the COVID-19 pandemic.
However, a Google reverse search of the first image indicates that it was taken in September 2019, in Hoima District during a Woman Member of Parliament election campaign rally for Forum for Democratic Change party candidate Asinasi Kamanda. Uganda had not yet recorded any COVID-19 cases at the time.
A Google reverse search of image two reveals it was taken on 3 November, 2020, the day Bobi Wine was nominated as a presidential candidate.
A Google reverse search of the third image reveals that it was also taken in November 2020, while Bobi Wine was on the campaign trail in Gulu District in northern Uganda.
PesaCheck has looked into a tweet with images claiming to show Bobi Wine addressing masses during the COVID-19 pandemic and finds it to be PARTLY FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*_94jlNyPSfbdukof