URL: https://pesacheck.org/partly-false-some-of-these-images-do-not-show-scenes-from-the-kampala-bomb-blasts-b84a2e65f2f9
PARTLY FALSE: Some of these images do not show scenes from the Kampala bomb blasts | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2021-11-18T18:53:33.873Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post with multiple images claiming to show the aftermath of the 16 November, 2021 bomb blasts in Kampala is PARTLY FALSE.
Four images are posted to advance this claim, along with text stating that the bombs exploded at the Central Police Station on Parliamentary Avenue and Nakasero Market.
However, some of the images in the post are not from the recent bomb blast as claimed. A Google reverse image search on the first image shows that it was taken by photographer Feisal Omar in the Somali capital, Mogadishu, in 2017, after a bomb attack as reported by Reuters.
A Google reverse image search on the other photos, as seen here and here, shows that the second and the third images were taken after the bomb blast in Kampala. The fourth image shows an aerial shot of the Kooki Plaza near the bomb blast incident in the country’s capital, Kampala.
The post also claims that there was a bomb blast at Nakasero Market. However, the Uganda Police Force did not report a blast at the market.
On 16 November 2021, the police force confirmed that two separate deadly suicide attacks took place in Kampala, one near a checkpoint adjacent to the Central Police Station and the other near Raja Chambers and Jubilee Insurance Building along Parliament Avenue. News media reports, both local and international, echoed the details of location as seen here, here and here.
Uganda’s President Yoweri Museveni also confirmed that the two bombs exploded in the locations mentioned by police.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post with multiple images claiming to show the aftermath of a bomb blast in Kampala and finds it to be PARTLY FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*-a9oIlxUoJd8hjWu