URL: https://pesacheck.org/partly-false-one-of-these-images-doesnt-show-olusegun-obasanjo-meeting-with-ethiopian-opposition-a6eb44c04862
PARTLY FALSE: One of these images doesn’t show Olusegun Obasanjo meeting with Ethiopian opposition leader Merera Gudina in June 2022 | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-06-10T06:25:45.507Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post claiming to show former Nigerian president Olusegun Obasanjo meeting with Ethiopian opposition leader Merera Gudina in June 2022 is PARTLY FALSE.
Obasanjo currently serves as African Union’s High Representative for the Horn of Africa.
The post in Amharic shared on 2 June 2022 has a headline that translates, “Obasanjo has discussed with Debretsion, Merera Gudina and Abiy Ahmed on Welkait and Raya issue”.
“But Obasanjo didn’t even want to engage the minister of Foreign Affairs, Demeke Mekonnen, in the negotiation process,” the post reads in part.
The publication adds; “Obasanjo preferred to discuss the Welkait and Raya issue with Merera, Debretsion and Abiy Ahmed.”
The post is accompanied by three images, all showing Obasanjo with Ethiopian leaders.
Welkait is a disputed woreda between Tigray and Amhara regional states and formerly under West Tigray zone. Following the war in the Tigray region that began in November 2020, Welkait is administered under the Amhara region. Raya is also a district in eastern Tigray.
Obasanjo has been leading mediation between the Ethiopian government and TPLF aimed at ending the conflict in Tigray.
However, one of the images attached to the post we are looking into doesn’t show opposition leader Merera Gudina meeting with Obasanjo recently.
Google reverse image results for the first image shows Obasanjo with Merera in June 2021 discussing the Ethiopian general elections of that year. The image was first shared by the African Union official website on 19 June 2021.
Results for the reverse image search for the second image depicts the meeting held between Obasanjo and Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) leader, Debretsion Gebremichael. TPLF spokesperson Getachew Reda shared the image on 31 May 2022.
Similarly, image search results for the third post show a delegation led by Ethiopian Prime Minister (PM) Abiy Ahmed arriving at Robe to inspect development projects in Bale, Oromia regional state, on 2 June 2022.
The delegation led by PM Abiy was composed of the former Ethiopian PM Hailemariam Desalegn, Obasanjo and World Bank Ethiopia Representative Ousmane Dione. The image was widely shared on different platforms on 2 June 2022 as can be seen here, here and here.
Although the second and the third images show Obasanjo meeting with Ethiopian officials and TPLF leader Debretsion on 31 May and 2 June 2022, the first image shows Obasanjo meeting with Merera in June 2021 during the Ethiopian general election.
PesaCheck has investigated an image claiming to show AU envoy for Horn of Africa, Olusegun Obasanjo, meeting with opposition leader, Merera Gudina, in June 2022 and finds it to be a PARTLY FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*EP-PopOyw2LoVPl9