URL: https://pesacheck.org/partly-false-not-all-of-these-pictures-show-tanzanias-newly-built-railway-7a599e09cc4
PARTLY FALSE: Not all of these pictures show Tanzania’s newly built railway | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2020-10-23T13:02:33.066Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post claiming to show pictures of different trains on tracks in Tanzania and featuring President John Magufuli at events relating to the railway is PARTLY FALSE.
Some of the pictures show President Magufuli on a train ride, disembarking from a train, walking through what appears to be a train station and giving a speech, among others. The text accompanying the photos urges the public to give the ruling government five more years to “advance the work they have started”.
While some of the photos were taken in Tanzania, others can be traced to other countries, including neighboring Kenya.
The photos featuring the President were taken in Mlandizi in the Pwani region of Tanzania in June 2020, when he inspected the progress of construction of the standard gauge railway (SGR) from Dar es Salaam to Morogoro, which is 80 percent complete.
However, a reverse image search of another picture of a train on the tracks at a station finds that it was taken on September 10, 2019, and shows a test train arriving at the Mai Mahiu station in Kenya. This photo was taken during the final phase of construction of the SGR project linking Kenya’s capital Nairobi to Naivasha town.
The photo, of a bullet train, was first shared in 2014 with an article about a plan by China and Russia to build the world’s longest high-speed line running from Beijing to Moscow.
The last photo is a commercial image, portraying a high-speed train at a railway station in Europe.
PesaCheck has investigated a Facebook post with a series of pictures of President Magufuli on a train and different pictures of railway trains, claiming to be from Tanzania, and finds it to be PARTLY FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*q6_lmoHgsbfpP7BA