URL: https://pesacheck.org/partly-false-two-of-these-images-are-not-related-to-russias-recent-attack-on-kyiv-3de6254881ba
PARTLY FALSE: Two of these images are not related to Russia’s recent attack on Kyiv | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-05-13T12:48:26.879Z

Listen
Share
These Facebook images claiming to show a recent attack on Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv, by Russia are PARTLY FALSE.
“The Ukrainian government has said that the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, has been hit by Russian missiles. The attack took place while UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres was visiting Ukraine. Ukrainian authorities have confirmed that Russia has fired two missiles at Kyiv,” part of the post in Amharic states.
The United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres visited Ukraine on 28 April 2022. While he was there, Russia launched an attack on Kyiv. Ukraine’s president denounced Russia’s actions and considered them an attempt to humiliate the United Nations.
However, as seen here and here, Google reverse image search results reveal that two of the images are old and have previously been published on different online platforms.
The first image was shared on the Daily Sabah website on 25 August 2021. “A Pantsir-S1M surface-to-air missile and anti-aircraft artillery system on display at the Army 2021 International Military and Technical Forum in Patriot Military Park in the town of Kubinka, west of Moscow, Russia, Aug. 24, 2021,” the caption of the image reads. Image credit is given to TASS via Reuters.
The second image was published on the Army Recognition website on 17 February 2022, two months before the attack on Kyiv by Russia during Guterres’ visit to Ukraine.
The description of the second image on the Army Recognition website reads, “The Iskander family includes five types of ballistic and two types of cruise missiles.” Picture credit is given to the Russian MoD.
The same image was shared on the Nezavisne website on 26 December 2018.
However, Google reverse image search results reveal that the third picture is related to a recent attack on Ukraine by Russia. The image can be found on this website with a caption that reads, “Firefighters try to put out a fire following an explosion in Kyiv, Ukraine on Thursday, April 28, 2022.” The picture is attributed to AP Photo/Emilio Morenatti.
The ongoing Russia-Ukraine war, which has led to thousands of civilian deaths and destruction, began on 24 February 2022 when Russia invaded Ukraine.
PesaCheck has looked into the Facebook images claiming to show an attack on Kyiv by Russia and finds them to be PARTLY FALSE.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*xfWv3pR_XYiF41td