URL: https://factly.in/photo-of-yamuna-expressway-is-falsely-shared-as-delhi-mumbai-expressway
Photo of Yamuna Expressway is falsely shared as Delhi-Mumbai Expressway - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-07-28T11:14:33+00:00
A post is being shared on social media claiming that it shows Delhi-Mumbai Expressway. The post also claims that the construction of the expressway is going on at a record speed and that the photo shows an Interchange near Ankleshwar. Let us fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of Delhi-Mumbai Expressway under construction.
Fact: The photo is of Yamuna Expressway and not Delhi-Mumbai Expressway. Yamuna Expressway is a 165 km long road connecting Delhi and Agra and was inaugurated in 2012, whereas the construction of Delhi-Mumbai Expressway is under progress and is expected to be completed by 2023. Delhi-Mumbai Expressway is going to be a 1,350 km long 8-lane road connecting Delhi with Mumbai. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When reverse image search is done on the photo, an article by Times of India with the same image was found. The article titled, ‘Faridabad-Greater Noida Road to be extended up to Yamuna E-way’ was published on 05 October 2016. The article talks about construction related to Yamuna Expressway and not of Delhi-Mumbai Expressway.
Taking the cue that this photo may be related to Yamuna Expressway, we searched Google with relevant keywords. An article by the Economic Times (about Yamuna Expressway) was found with the same photo as in the post. The Yamuna Expressway was inaugurated by the then UP Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav in 2012. It connects Delhi with Agra and does not pass through Ankleshwar which is a place in Gujarat.
Both, Jaypee Group and JSW Steel were part of the construction of the Yamuna Expressway. On the website of Jaypee Group and JSW Steel, there are similar photos of Yamuna Expressway as shared in the post.
The banner image on the website of Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority is like the one in the post. ‘Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority is the nodal agency responsible for implementing the Yamuna Expressway Project and allied development in the region. The YEIDA was established in April 2021 under the UP Industrial Area Development Act, 1976. Formerly it was known as Taj Expressway Industrial Development Authority (TEA).’
The construction of the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway is in progress and is expected to be completed by January 2023. Out of the 1,350 km road, 350 km road has already been laid according to Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari. The articles about which can be seen here and here. According to the video, the 8-lane greenfield Delhi-Mumbai Expressway will be the longest expressway in India.
To sum it up, a photo of Yamuna Expressway is falsely shared as Delhi-Mumbai Expressway.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/07/Delhi-Mumbai-Expressway-Construction-Photo_post.jpg