URL: https://factly.in/photo-of-meruvardhanaswami-temple-is-shared-as-that-of-shital-nath-temple-in-jammu-and-kashmir
Photo of Meruvardhana swami temple is shared as that of Shital Nath Temple in Jammu and Kashmir - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-07-11T10:37:56+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it is a picture of the Shital Nath temple in Kashmir. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim:  Picture of the Shital Nath temple in Kashmir.
Fact: The photo shared in the post shows the Meruvardhana swami temple located inside the Badami Bagh Cantonment in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir. This photo does not show the Shital Nath temple in Kashmir. Hence, the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo is found in an article published by the Kashmir Review website. This website reported it is a picture of the historical Pandrethan temple located inside the Badami Bagh Cantonment in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir.
The Pandrethan temple in Srinagar is also called as the ‘Meruvardhana swami temple’ and ‘Pani Mandir’. It is an ancient stone temple dedicated to Lord Shiva that lies within a square-shaped tank to the north of the Jhelum River. This temple was believed to be constructed in the 10th century by Meruvardhana, the minister of King Partha. The Chinar Corps of the Indian Army adopted this temple and are looking after the maintenance of the temple. A few other images of this temple can be seen here, here and here.
The Shital Nath temple is located in the Habba Kadal area of Srinagar. A few pictures of the Shital Nath temple in Srinagar can be seen here and here. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the image shared in the post shows the Meruvardhana swami temple, not the Shital Nath temple in Srinagar.
To sum it up, a photo of Meruvardhana swami temple is being shared as a picture of the Shital Nath Temple in Jammu and Kashmir.  

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/07/Shital-nath-temple-in-Kashmir-Claim.jpg