URL: https://factly.in/photo-of-mathi-revathi-from-andhra-pradesh-is-falsely-shared-as-head-constable-revathi-of-tamil-nadu
Photo of Mathi Revathi from Andhra Pradesh is falsely shared as Head Constable Revathi of Tamil Nadu - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-07-01T11:41:17+00:00
An image is being shared on social media claiming that the woman shown in the photo is Head constable Revathi, who gave the statement against the Police personnel involved in the custodial death of father and son in Sathankulam Police station, Tamil Nadu. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of Revathi, the Head constable of Sathankulam police station in Tamil Nadu
Fact: The woman shown in the post is Mathi Revathi from Andhra Pradesh, not the Head constable Revathi of Sathankulam Police station in Tamil Nadu. So, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When we searched for the photo shared in the post, it is found that the woman shown in the post is Mathi Revathi from Andhra Pradesh, not Head Constable Revathi of Sathankulam Police station in Tamil Nadu. Mathi Revathi was selected as a Sub-Inspector of Police (S.I.) from A.P in 2017. More information about her could be found here in a Fact-Check published by FACTLY regarding a false claim about her.
Revathi, the Head Constable of Sathankulam Police station in Tamil Nadu gave the statement against the police personnel involved in the brutal killing of Jeyaraj and Beniks in her station. Revathi gave her statement to the judicial magistrate of Kovilpatti, who conducted the probe at Sathankulam Police station to investigate about the events that led to the death of father and son. No photo of Head Constable Revathi was published in any official website or news channel.
To sum it up, a photo of Mathi Revathi from Andhra Pradesh is falsely shared as Head Constable Revathi of Tamil Nadu.
Did you watch our new video?

Pingback: Photo of Mathi Revathi from Andhra Pradesh is falsely shared as Head Constable Revathi of Tamil Nadu - fasak24x7

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/07/Custodial-Death-case-in-Tamil-Nadu-claim.jpg