URL: https://factly.in/photos-of-the-attack-on-congress-party-men-in-2016-are-being-re-circulated-with-misleading-claims
Photos of the attack on Congress party men in 2016 are being re-circulated with misleading claims - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-04-24T12:46:34+00:00
Many Facebook users are sharing a post with photos of Punjab Congress supporters being thrashed with rods. It is even alleged that the man with a turban seen in the photo is Navjot Singh Sidhu. Let’s try to analyze the veracity of the claims made in the post.
Claim 1:  Punjab Congress party workers were attacked with rods and the man with the turban seen in the photo is Navjot Singh Sidhu.
Fact: The photos in the post were taken in 2016 during the attack on Punjab Congress party workers and the man in the photo is not Navjot Singh Sidhu. Hence, the post is MISLEADING.
On doing Google Reverse Image search, the pictures in the post were found to be the ones related to the incident when Punjab Congress workers were attacked during a motorcycle rally. This incident was reported in “The Tribune” newspaper dated September 27, 2016. On searching YouTube, a video related to this incident was also found. If the video is seen clearly, one can easily distinguish that the man with a turban is not Navjot Singh Sidhu as alleged in the post. He is the then Congress Amritsar(Rural) district president and now Member of Parliament, Gurjeet Singh Aujla. The same has been mentioned in the Tribune story.
As the general elections are in progress, several such old photos and videos are being recirculated with misleading claims.

This is really very good that fact has been confirmed. Is there any way that I can check about the correctness of any thing I post? People who know, please guide.
You can search for all the fact checked articles at https://toolbox.google.com/factcheck/explore if someone had already fact checked that particular post.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/04/Attack-on-Congress-partmen-in-Punjab-FB-Post.jpg