URL: https://factly.in/photo-of-a-girl-who-was-raped-and-murdered-by-muslims-in-delhi-riots-no-a-suspicious-death-case-from-madhya-pradesh
Photo of a girl who was raped and murdered by Muslims in Delhi riots? No, a suspicious death case from Madhya Pradesh - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-03-04T13:24:34+00:00
In the context of the recent Delhi riots, the photo of a girl is being shared on social media with a claim that she was raped and murdered by Muslims. Let’s try to analyze the authenticity of the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of a girl who was raped and murdered by Muslims inside AAP councillor Tahir Hussain’s house during the recent Delhi riots.
Fact: The girl in the photo is Jyoti Patidar, a 12th grade student from Parasuliyakalan village in Madhya Pradesh who died under suspicious circumstances at her residence on February 19. There is no relation between the girl in the photo and the recent Delhi riots. Hence, the claim made in the post is  FALSE.    
When the name of the girl shared in the post was searched on Google, an article published by ‘Dainik Bhaskar’ with the same photo was found in the search results. From the article, it is understood that Jyoti Patidar, a 12th-grade student from Parasuliyakalan village in Madhya Pradesh died under suspicious circumstances at her residence on February 19. It was first thought that the girl may have died because of a fire accident in the house or by committing suicide. However, her family members and relatives later complained to the police that she might have been raped and killed. More information about the incident can be read here, here and here.
People have demanded the police to quickly investigate the case and arrest the accused by holding a protest rally. The video of this rally and the other related videos can be seen here, here and here. The request letter given to the police by ABVP in reference to the case was posted by someone on Facebook and can be seen here.
The video of the press meet held by the police in reference to this case can be seen here. Currently, the case is under investigation.
To summarize, a photo of a girl who died under suspicious circumstances in Madhya Pradesh is being wrongly shared in the context of recent Delhi riots as a girl who was raped and murdered by Muslims.
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/03/Delhi-Girl-Raped-Post.png