URL: https://factly.in/photo-of-hyderabads-osmania-hospital-ward-is-falsely-shared-as-that-of-a-hospital-in-bihar
Photo of Hyderabad's Osmania hospital ward is falsely shared as that of a Hospital in Bihar - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-07-18T13:23:26+00:00
A hospital ward photo is being shared on social media claiming it as the condition of a COVID-19 hospital in Bihar. In the photo, the hospital ward filled with rainwater and sewage. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Bihar COVID -19 treating hospital ward filled with rainwater and sewage.
Fact: The hospital ward shown in the photo is the Osmania hospital in Hyderabad where sewage & rainwater flowed into an old ward in the hospital recently. The photo is not related to Bihar. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in an article published by ‘India today’ news website on ‘15 July 2020’. In this article, it is mentioned that the Osmania hospital ward in Hyderabad was filled with rainwater and sewage recently. Article with similar content and with the same photo was found in by ‘The Hindu Business Line’  news website. Also, video footage showing the same hospital ward was found in an article published by NDTV. Hence, it can be concluded that the hospital ward shown in the photo is from Osmania hospital, Hyderabad and not Bihar.
Even in Bihar, there were several instances in the past where wards in major hospitals were filled with rainwater and sewage. Video footage and article related to those incidents could be seen here and here. But, the hospital ward shown in this specific post is from Hyderabad Osmania hospital, not related to any COVID-19 hospital in Bihar.
To sum it up, a photo of Hyderabad Osmania hospital ward is being falsely portrayed as the condition of COVID-19 hospital in Bihar.
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/07/Covid-hospital-in-Bihar-claim.jpg