URL: https://factly.in/photo-of-jayshah-with-urvashi-rautelas-brother-is-shared-as-that-with-the-son-of-pakistani-general
Photo of Jay Shah with Urvashi Rautela’s brother is shared as him with the son of a Pakistani General - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-09-02T12:23:11+00:00
A photo is being widely shared on social media claiming that the photo shows BCCI Secretary Jay Shah with Pakistan General’s son Saad Bajwa. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of BCCI secretary Jay Shah with Pakistan General’s Son Saad Bajwa.
Fact: From the posts & details on Uravshi Rautela’s social media accounts, the person standing next to Jay Shah is her brother Yashraj Rautela, not Pakistani General’s son Saad Bajwa. Hence the claim made in the video is FALSE
First, we searched the internet for various pictures of Saad Bajwa and found that the person standing next to Jay Shah in the viral image is not Saad Bajwa. Various images of Saad Bajwa can be seen here, here and here.
Then, we ran the reverse image search of the viral photo and found a Facebook post sharing the same image on 29 August 2022. But the description says, “Jay Shah YashRaj Rautela IND vs PAK Asia cup 2022”. Also, the background of the image shows a stadium full of audience.
Taking a cue from this, we searched about Yashraj Rautela and found that he is the younger brother of actress Urvashi Rautela. More pics can be seen here and here
According to media reports, Urvashi Rautela and many other celebrities watched the Asia Cup cricket match between India and Pakistan on 29 August 2022. Also, YashRaj Rautela shared a picture on Instagram wearing the same outfit.
A post shared by YashrajRautela🎖 (@yashrajrautela)
However, at 1:58:39 time stamp in the full match replay uploaded on Hotstar, one can see Jayshah and Saad Bajwa sitting in the gallery and watching the match.
To sum it up, though Pakistan General’s son Saad Bajwa attended the match between India and Pakistan, he is not the person standing next to Jay Shah in the viral image

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/09/jay-shah-with-saad-bajwa-viral-post-1.jpg