URL: https://factly.in/photoshopped-news-clip-falsely-shared-to-claim-amit-shah-wanting-to-change-the-demography-of-kashmir-in-four-years
Photoshopped news clip falsely shared to claim Amit Shah wanting to change the demography of Kashmir in four years - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-04-02T15:17:16+00:00
A newspaper clip of an article purportedly published by the ‘Hindustan Times’ is being shared widely on social media. The clip carries the news that Amit Shah had said to the VHP cadre that they (government) would not allow a state to have Muslim majority population when the whole of India is a Hindu majority; so, they (government) would change the demography of Kashmir in just four years. Let’s check the authenticity of that news clip.
Claim: Amit Shah had said to the VHP cadre that they would change the demography of Kashmir in just four years.
Fact: The newspaper clip of ‘Hindustan times’ carrying that news is an edited one. The original article carried the news that Amit Shah has reworked Kashmir’s domicile law by including those who were residing in the state for 15 years. The writer of the original article, ‘Neeraj Chauhan’, has also clarified that the information in the clip is fake and it is an edited one. So, the claim is FALSE.
In the photo, it can be seen that the article in the newspaper clip was written by ‘Neeraj Kumar’ for the ‘Hindustan Times’. In the article, it was reported that Amit Shah would change the demography of Kashmir by changing the Muslim ratio in the state by allowing more Hindus into the state by offering them plots for residence, industries and commercial establishments.
When searched on Google with the keywords in the news clip, no such article was found. But, when the image in the clip is cropped and subjected to reverse image search, an article of ‘Hindustan Times’ was found. The article was about Amit Shah reworking Kashmir’s domicile law by including those who were residing in the state for 15 years. It reported that Amit Shah had assured a delegation of Kashmiri leaders last month that the apprehensions about the Union Territory’s demographic changes were baseless. It also carried the information that the government has redefined domicile rules for Kashmir and ordered that only people who fulfill that criteria are eligible to be appointed to junior posts in the bureaucracy and the constabulary. The article had the same image, author, and date as that of the one in the clip. So, the news clip in the post is an edited one.
Also, the writer of the article and Associate Editor of the Hindustan Times, Neeraj Chouhan, has tweeted and clarified that the information in the clip is fake and it is an edited one.
A FAKE news is doing rounds on whatsapp with my name. This isn’t my story or on HT website. Somebody has edited this and spreading it. This is absolutely FAKE. Request all fact-checkers to please see. @free_thinker @AltNews @boomlive_in @syednazakat @smhoaxslayer @jencyjac pic.twitter.com/k3bBIdWv9w
To sum it up, a photoshopped news clip is being shared to falsely claim that Amit Shah wanted to change the demography of Kashmir in four years.
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/04/Amit-Shah-Kashmir-demography-FB-post.jpg