URL: https://factly.in/photo-of-a-merchant-navy-engineer-is-shared-as-a-senior-lady-indian-navy-officer-from-a-poor-family-in-jalandhar
Photo of a merchant navy engineer is shared as a senior lady Indian Navy officer from a poor family in Jalandhar - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-01-18T08:38:26+00:00
A photo of a woman dressed in a white navy-like uniform is being shared on social media claiming her as a senior Indian Navy officer raised from a poor family in Jalandhar. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of a Senior lady Indian Navy officer who was raised in a poor family in Punjab’s Jalandhar.Fact: Certain ‘Marchant Navy’ and other prominent organizations shared similar photos of the woman on their Facebook pages. They identified the woman as Reena D’ Cunha, who is presently living in Mumbai, Maharashtra. Reena D’ Cunha was appointed as the Merchant Navy Chief Engineer in 2017. Similar photos of Reena D’ Cunha in Merchant Navy uniform were also found on her Facebook page. Though we could not find personal details of Reena D’ Cunha & her family, it can be confirmed that Reena D’ Cunha is a merchant navy officer and has nothing to do with the Indian Navy. Hence, the claim made in the post is MISLEADING. 
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo of the lady was found on a website describing her as a merchant navy officer. When we searched for more information about this woman using keywords, a similar photo of the lady officer was found on the ‘Merchant Navy’ Facebook page. This Facebook handle identified the woman as the Merchant Navy officer named Reena D’ Cunha. Several other prominent social media handles shared similar photos of the lady officer mentioning her as Reena D’ Cunha.
On searching for further details of the officer, we found multiple similar photos of the woman on a Facebook page created with the username Reena D’ Cunha. They can be seen here and here.
Reena D’ Cunha is a Merchant Navy Chief Engineer living in Mumbai city in Maharashtra. Though we could not find personal details of Reena D’ Cunha & her family, it can be confirmed that Reena D’ Cunha is a merchant navy officer and has nothing to do with the Indian Navy.
To sum it up, a photo of a merchant navy engineer is shared as a senior lady Indian Navy officer from a poor family in Jalandhar.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/01/Senior-lady-navy-officer-raised-from-a-poor-family-in-Jalandhar-Claim.jpg