URL: https://factly.in/photo-of-a-man-transporting-a-mannequin-in-egypt-shared-as-the-visuals-of-a-muslim-carrying-a-dead-body-on-a-motorcycle
Photo of a man transporting a mannequin in Egypt shared as the visuals of a Muslim carrying a dead body on a motorcycle - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-06-05T08:45:21+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it is the visuals of a Muslim carrying a dead body on a two-wheeler. The photo shows a human foot-like structure protruding out from a covered object placed on the back seat of the two-wheeler. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.  
Claim: Photo showing a Muslim man carrying a dead body on his two-wheeler.
Fact: The photo shared in the post shows a man carrying a mannequin, that is displayed outside cloth stores, in Cairo, Egypt. The photo was taken when a transport company executive was delivering a dismantled mannequin to a garment merchant store in the Mokattam area in Cairo. The object carried on the two-wheeler is a mannequin, not a human dead body, and the photo is falsely shared with a communal narrative. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the same photo was found in an article published by the ‘Cairo 24’ news website on 02 June 2023. This news article reported it is a picture of a man carrying a dismantled mannequin in Cairo, Egypt. The news website reported that after the publication on Cairo 24, the Ministry of Interior issued a clarification regarding social media posts about a photo of a dead body carried on a motorcycle, and clarified that the image shows a transport company executive carrying a mannequin on a two-wheeler.
Reporting the details of the photo, several other news websites have also published articles. They can be seen here and here. As per the reports, a garment company assigned the task to a transport company to deliver a mannequin from one of their branches to their other store in the Mokattam area in Cairo. As per the given task, 28-year-old Muhammad Nasar was delivering a mannequin to the Mokattam area when this photo was shot. Speaking to the media, Muhammad Nasar said that whoever filmed him had destroyed his life. Muhammad Nasar said that people had totally misinterpreted his photo, and said that it had a great negative impact on his life.
BG Collection, the cloth store that assigned the task of transporting the mannequin, published a Facebook post clarifying that the photo was taken while an executive was transporting a mannequin from their Gamal Abdel Nasser branch to the Al-Mukattam branch in Cairo. A few other Facebook posts published by the BG collection regarding this photo can be seen here and here.
To sum it up, a photo of a man transporting a mannequin on a two-wheeler in Egypt is now shared as the visuals of a Muslim carrying a dead boy on a motorcycle.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/06/Muslim-man-transporting-a-dead-body-on-a-motor-cycle-Claim.jpg