URL: https://factly.in/photo-of-yv-subba-reddys-wife-holding-the-bible-is-being-shared-out-of-context
Photo of YV Subba Reddy’s wife holding the Bible is being shared out of context - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-10-01T11:29:13+00:00
A post with a photo is being widely shared on social media claiming that YV Subba Reddy’s wife is holding the bible. The post even claims that YV Subba Reddy is the Chairman of the world’s richest Hindu temple, but his wife is seen holding the bible.  Let us fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of YV Subba Reddy’s wife holding the Bible in her hand..
Fact: The photo was taken during a book release function of the late YS Rajashekhar Reddy ‘Naalo Naatho YSR’ in 2020. From the videos taken during the function, it is clear that YS Vijayamma (mother of AP CM YS Jagan) gave her bible to the woman standing behind her who is YV Subba Reddy’s wife. In August 2021, YV Subba Reddy was reappointed as the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) trust board Chairman. In 2019 there was a controversy over the religion of YV Subba Reddy, but he denied it and said that he i a Hindu. Hence, the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
When reverse image search is done on the photo, a YouTube video with the same photo was found. At the 5:42 timestamp of the YouTube video, the same image was found where YV Subba Reddy’s wife could be seen holding the Bible. However, at 0:41 timestamp, it is clear that YS Vijayamma, mother of YS Jagan gave her bible to the woman standing behind her, who is YV Subba Reddy’s wife, Yerram Swarnalatha Reddy. Another video from TV9 Telugu YouTube channel also shows that YS Vijayamma was handing her Bible to the woman behind her. This incident happened at the book launch of ‘Naalo Naatho YSR’ at Idupulapaya in Andhra Pradesh.
In August 2021, YV Subba Reddy was reappointed as the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) trust board Chairman. In 2019 there was a controversy over the religion of YV Subba Reddy when he was being appointed as the Chairman of the TTD trust board. It was widely claimed across social media that he was a Christian, but he replied in an interview to TV9 saying, ‘I was born a Hindu and I will die a Hindu.’ There are pictures in the Facebook account of YV Subba Reddy, where he and his wife Yerram Swarnalatha Reddy were shown visiting various Hindu temples. There is a YouTube video of Yerram Swarnalatha Reddy giving a speech about ‘Dhyanam and Omkaram’.
To sum it up, a photo of YV Subba Reddy’s wife holding the Bible is being shared out of context.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/10/YV-Subbareddy-Wife-Holding-Bible-Photo_post.jpg