URL: https://factly.in/photo-from-maharashtra-government-hospital-is-being-linked-to-the-government-hospitals-in-various-states
Photo from Maharashtra government hospital is being linked to the government hospitals in various states - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-04-22T13:30:04+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it as the visual of two men and a woman getting treatment on the same hospital bed in Gujarat. This post claims that PM Narendra Modi led BJP Government constructed the world’s biggest statue with Rs. 3000 crores in Gujarat but did not build a good health care system in the state. The same image is also being linked to the government hospitals in multiple other states like Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. They can be seen here and here. Let’s verify the claim made in these posts.
Claim: Photo of three persons getting treated on the same bed at a government hospital in Gujarat.
Fact:  The photo shared in the post was taken at a government hospital in Nagpur, Maharashtra. This photo has nothing to do with Gujarat. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On observing carefully, we could see the number on the hospital bed written in the Marathi language. So, it can be inferred that the image is related to a government hospital in Maharashtra.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found to be shared in a tweet by the ‘Times Now’ media network Senior Editor, Megha Prasad. In the tweet, Megha Prasad mentioned it as visuals from a government hospital in Nagpur, Maharashtra.
This is from a hospital in #nagpur #Maharashtra #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/AdKrZNFYnU
On searching for further information using these keywords, we found news articles reporting the patients’ situation at a government hospital in Nagpur. They can be seen here and here. These articles reported it as the frightening visuals from Nagpur Government Medical College hospital, where more than two COVID-19 patients were treated on the same hospital bed. In the wake of a massive surge in COVID-19 virus cases, this hospital is reportedly running short of hospital beds. The photos shared in these articles are similar to the photo shared in the post.
To sum it up, an image from Maharashtra government hospital is being linked to government hospitals in different states.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/04/More-than-two-patients-on-the-same-hospital-bed-in-Gujarat-Claim.jpg