URL: https://factly.in/photos-of-a-bangladesh-housewife-are-falsely-shared-as-those-of-a-love-jihad-victim-in-kerala
Photos of a Bangladesh housewife are falsely shared as those of a love jihad victim in Kerala - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-09-22T12:27:30+00:00
A collage with the photos of a woman is being shared on social media claiming her as the one more love jihad victim in Kerala. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photos of a love jihad victim in Kerala.
Fact: Photos shows a Bangladesh housewife who was brutally tortured by her husband and her in-laws. Sumaiya Hassan, the housewife from Dhaka shared these photos on Facebook showing wounds on her body. She is not reported as a converted Muslim by any news websites. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search, one of the photos in the post was found in an article published by ‘DhakaTribune’ news website published on ’26 June 2020’. In the article, it is mentioned that a housewife from Dhaka posted a heart-breaking Facebook status update stating that her husband, father-in-law and mother-in-law continuously tortured her while demanding dowry. Sumaiya Hassan, the housewife from Dhaka shared a collage of photos on Facebook showing wounds on her body. In the article, it is mentioned that Sumaiya Hassan and her husband Jahid Hassan Ontor fell in love on Facebook 5 years ago and later got married.
‘DhakaTribune’ news website published another article on ’27 June 2020’ detailing the incident. In the article, it is reported that Sumaiya Hassan’s husband was taken into custody by the Dhaka police. It is also mentioned in the article that neither Sumaiya Hassan nor her family filed a case against her husband Jahid. She reportedly returned home along with him on the evening of his arrest. Sumaiya Hassan on her Facebook post thanked all the people who reacted to her Facebook status. In both these articles, there is no mention of Sumaiya Hassan being a converted Muslim.
To sum it up, photos of a Bangladesh housewife are falsely shared as the photos of love jihad victim in Kerala.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/09/Love-Jihad-victim-in-Kerala-claim.jpg