URL: https://factly.in/photos-of-houses-and-bridge-pillars-painted-with-images-of-hindu-deities-in-prayagraj-city-are-falsely-shared-as-in-ayodhya
Photos of houses and bridge pillars painted with images of Hindu deities in Prayagraj city are falsely shared as in Ayodhya - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-07-27T12:41:01+00:00
A few photos are being shared on Facebook claiming that Ayodhya is being painted with saffron as part of the preparations for the Bhoomi Poojan of the Ram Mandir. The photos show houses and bridge pillars painted with the images of Hindu deities. PM Modi is scheduled to visit Ayodhya on ‘5 August 2020’ to perform ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ for the Ram temple. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photos of houses and bridge pillars in Ayodhya painted with images of Hindu deities as part of the preparations for Ram temple’s ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ event.
Fact: The photos with Hindu deities painted over the houses and bridge pillars are of Prayagraj (Allahabad), not Ayodhya. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When we subjected the photos to reverse image search technique, reports were found which confirmed that the photos are of houses and bridge pillars in Prayagraj city painted with images of Hindu deities.
Photo-1:
The photo can be seen in an article of ‘Outlook’. In the description of the photo, it was mentioned that the photo is of houses in Prayagraj painted with Hindu deities.
Photo-2:
Surroundings seen in the photo can be seen in a news video of NDTV that reported about houses in Prayagraj painted with pictures Hindu deities. A similar photo can also be seen in a tweet of ‘ANI UP’.
Photo-3:
The photo can be seen in a tweet of ‘ANI UP’ that had information about complaints being registered in Prayagraj for painting houses in a street in saffron without the owner’s consent.
Photo-4:  
The photo can be seen on the website of ‘Getty Images’ with the description that the photo shows pillars of Shastri bridge in Allahabad (Prayagraj) painted as part of ‘Paint My City’ project for the Kumbh Mela festival.
To sum it up, photos of houses and bridge pillars painted with images of Hindu deities in Prayagraj city are falsely shared as those from Ayodhya.
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/07/Ayodhya-paintings-FB-post.jpg