URL: https://factly.in/photos-of-a-girl-who-survived-a-bomb-attack-in-syria-in-2016-are-falsely-passed-off-as-a-palestinian-girl
Photos of a girl who survived a bomb attack in Syria in 2016 are falsely passed off as a Palestinian girl - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-10-30T12:05:25+00:00
A collage of three photos, each showing an alleged Palestinian little girl being carried by different individuals, is doing the rounds on social media with a claim that these images show the girl being rescued on three separate days at three different locations. This fact check aims to shed light on the validity of this statement.
Claim: Collage showing a Palestinian girl being saved on three different days at three different locations.
Fact: These photos have nothing to do with Palestine. The three images included in the collage all originate from the same incident in Aleppo, Syria, in August 2016. They do not depict separate rescue events or locations.  Hence, the claim made in the post is False.
Firstly, we performed a reverse image search on each photo in the collage. The search results led to an article that included an image that features the man on the right side of the collage and the same girl. The photo, taken by Abdalrhman Ismail of Reuters, shows a young girl who survived an air strike attack in Aleppo, Syria, on 27 August 2016.
Further, based on the results from the reverse image search, we identified the men in the other two photos. The man on the left and the man in the middle were also in the same location in the rescue effort. The girl is first carried by the man on the left, and he is seen passing her off to the man on the right of the college in these two photos (here and here) available on Getty Images. You can also see the same little girl sitting in a vehicle in this photo published by Reuters. This was shot on the same day.
A CNN article published the middle image (cropped version) from the viral collage (here), linking it to the same attack that happened in Aleppo. All evidence points to these three photos being taken on the same day during the same rescue operation. The claim suggesting that the girl was saved on three separate days at three different locations is, therefore, incorrect. 
To sum up, photos of a girl who survived a bomb attack in Syria in 2016 are falsely passed off as a Palestinian girl being saved on three different days at three different locations.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/10/Photo-of-a-girl-rescued-in-Palestine-Claim--1024x774.jpg