URL: https://factly.in/photoshopped-version-of-an-old-photo-is-now-falsely-shared-as-the-public-support-for-kangana-ranaut
Photoshopped version of an old photo is now falsely shared as the public support for Kangana Ranaut - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-09-10T14:35:13+00:00
A collage with the photos of a group of people holding placards is being shared on social media. On the placards, Kangana Ranaut is described as a Hindu Lioness and asks her to continue the battle with the Maharashtra government. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: A group of people holding the placards in support of Kangana Ranaut.
Fact: Photos in the post shows a photoshopped version of placards held by a group of Congress workers in April 2020. In the original photo, people held the placards that displayed ‘Arrest Anti Indian Arnab’. They displayed these placards in a protest against Journalist Arnab Goswami’s alleged insulting comments on Sonia Gandhi. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of photos shared in the post, the original version of this photo was found in a Facebook post of ‘Indian Youth Congress’. In the post, it is clarified that supporters of a certain actor have been misusing their photo which was shot during their protest against Journalist Arnab Goswami for his alleged insulting comments on Sonia Gandhi. In the original version of the photo, the placards display ‘Arrest Anti Indian Arnab’. By photoshopping the words on the original placards held by Congress supporters, few social media users are sharing it as the love and support of people for Kangana Ranaut in the ongoing tussle with Maharashtra Government.
The original version of the photo was also found in articles published by ‘Navjeevan’ and ‘The Loknithi’ news websites. They can be seen here and here. Both these articles were published on ‘22 April 2020’.
To sum it up, photoshopped version of old photos is now falsely shared as the public support for Kangana Ranaut.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/09/Public-support-to-Kangana-Ranaut-claim-1.jpg