URL: https://factly.in/photo-of-jaggi-vasudev-with-his-daughter-radhe-jaggi-is-shared-with-a-misleading-narrative
Photo of Jaggi Vasudev with his daughter Radhe Jaggi is shared with a misleading narrative - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-02-17T13:45:55+00:00
A photo of Jaggi Vasudev with a woman on his lap is being shared on social media with the Hindi text, “Athyanth Sanskari Baba ji” (when translated to English: “very cultured baba”). This post implies it as a picture showing Jaggi Vasudev, the founder of the Isha Foundation, posing intimately with a woman. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo showing Isha Foundation Head Jaggi Vasudev posing intimately with a woman.
Fact: The woman in the photo who was seen sitting on Jaggi Vasudev’s lap is his daughter Radhe Jaggi. Sadhguru shared this picture on the occasion of Father’s Day in 2018. Hence, the claim made in the post is Misleading.
Many users in the comments section of the post mentioned that the woman seen sitting on Jaggi Vasudev’s lap in the photo is his daughter. On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the same photo was found tweeted by Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev on 17 June 2018, with the description, “A fortune to spend an hour with my dear father and they tell me it is #FathersDay”. 
A fortune to spend an hour with my dear father and they tell me it is #FathersDay . -Sg pic.twitter.com/9XJFWGtcsp
When we searched for further sources, we found that the woman sitting on Sadhguru’s lap in the photo was his daughter Radhe Jaggi, a classical Bharatanatyam dancer. Videos of Jaggi Vasudev interacting with his daughter Radhe Jaggi can be seen here and here. Multiple tweets by Jaggi Vasudev about his daughter can be seen here and here.
Radhe Jaggi shared multiple pictures of her with his father Jaggi Vasudev on her Instagram handle. A few of them can be seen here and here. Lately, Upasana Konidela shared a photo posing with Jaggi Vasudev and Radhe Jaggi. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the woman seen along with Jaggi Vasudev in the photo was his daughter Radhe Jaggi. 
To sum it up, a photo of Jaggi Vasudev with his daughter Radhe Jaggi is shared with a misleading narrative.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/02/Sadgurus-photo-with-a-woman-Claim.jpg