URL: https://factly.in/photo-of-a-2018-murder-case-in-unnau-falsely-linked-to-the-budaun-rape-case
Photo of a 2018 murder case in Unnao is falsely linked to the Badaun rape case - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-01-07T13:52:32+00:00
Photo of a dead woman is being shared on social media claiming her to be the 50-year-old woman who was allegedly gang-raped and murdered inside a temple in Badaun district of Uttar Pradesh. On 03 January 2021, a 50-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped and murdered by three men including a priest inside a temple in Badaun district of Uttar Pradesh. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of the 50-year-old rape victim in Badaun district of Uttar Pradesh.
Fact:  The photo shows the dead body of a young woman who was brutally murdered in Unnao district of Uttar Pradesh in 2018. This photo has nothing to do with the recent incident of a 50-year-old woman who was allegedly gang-raped and murdered in Badaun. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo of the dead woman was found in a tweet posted by a user on 24 December 2018. In the post, he claims that Goldie Yadav, a resident of Maurawan village in Unnao district of Uttar Pradesh was found dead in the farm fields on the morning of 24 December 2018. When another user shared this incident on his Twitter page, Unnao district police responded saying that Maurava police took immediate action soon after they got the information about this murder. 
उक्त घटना की सूचना मिलते ही थाना मौरावां पुलिस मौके पर पहुँच शव को कब्जे में लेकर शव का पंचायतनामा भरकर पीएम हेतु भेजा गया हैै अभियोग पंजी० कर कार्यवाही की जा रही है।
When we searched for more details of the murder using these keywords, we found an article published in ‘Gaon Connection’ media website about this incident. In the article, it is reported that Goldie Yadav, resident of Maurawan village in Unnau district found dead in bushes on 24 December 2018. In the article, it is mentioned that Satish Yadav, a local from the same village killed Goldie Yadav for rejecting his love proposal. Reporting the same, ‘24 Surya News’ uploaded a video on their YouTube channel.
Goldie Yadav cleared the Uttar Pradesh Constable Examination and was getting ready to join the post. News reports about Goldie Yadav’s death can be read here and here. Samaj Wadi Party Leader Shivpal Yadav has also tweeted about Goldie Yadav death on his official Twitter handle.
उन्नाव में एक बेटी गोल्डी यादव की हत्या  दुःखद  व शर्मनाक है, हाल ही में यूपी पुलिस की परीक्षा पास करने वाली इस बेटी के साथ दुष्कर्म की भी आशंका जताई जा रही है।  क्या इस सरकार के तथाकथित "राम-राज" व "बेटी बचाओ अभियान" का कुल जमा हासिल यही है ?
To sum it up, 2018 photo of the dead young woman is being shared as the photo of the 50-year-old woman who was allegedly gang-raped and murdered by three men in Badaun

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/01/Budaun-rape-victim-photo-Claim.jpg