URL: https://factly.in/photos-of-accidentally-burnt-maa-kali-idol-in-west-bengal-is-shared-with-a-false-communal-narrative
Photos of accidentally burnt 'Maa Kali' idol in West Bengal is shared with a false communal narrative - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-09-03T14:21:06+00:00
A post is being shared on social media claiming it as the photo of Kali Matha idol which was burned by the Muslims in West Bengal. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.          
Claim: Photos of the Kali idol that was burned by the Muslims in West Bengal.
Fact: Photos in the post shows the burned idol of Kali temple in Alampur village of Murshidabad district in West Bengal. The temple authority had clarified that on ‘31 August 2020’, the idol in the temple had caught fire in an accident. They said that these photos are shared on social media giving a non-existent communal colour. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search, we found the same photos in a tweet posted by BJP MP Ashok Singh with a claim that Muslims in West Bengal burnt Kali idol in Murshidabad. In response to this tweet, Murshidabad police said the claim made in the post is not true. West Bengal Police through their official twitter account stated that the post by MP Ashok Singh is misleading.
pic.twitter.com/8ufX7uYC7g
In a tweet posted by Murshidabad Police, it is mentioned that the Secretary of Kali Matha temple in Alampur clarified that there is no communal angle in the accident that took place in the temple. In the tweet,  they shared the screenshot of the Facebook post made by the temple secretary Shukdev Bajpayee. In his post on Facebook, the secretary of the temple clarified that on ‘31 August 2020’, the idol of Kali matha in the temple had caught fire in an accident. He also mentioned in his post that the relation between Hindu and Muslim communities was harmonious in their village. He also said that these photos are shared on social media giving a non-existent communal colour.
নওদার কালীমন্দিরের ঘটনা নিয়ে সেখানকার মন্দির কমিটির সেক্রেটারির বক্তব্য আপনাদের সকলের জন্য। আপনাদের সকলের কাছে অনুরোধ কেউ গুজব ছড়াবেন না আর গুজবে বিশ্বাস করবেন না।আর যারা গুজব ছড়াবেন বা ছড়ানোর চেষ্টা করবেন, তাদের বিরুদ্ধে কঠোর আইনানুগ ব্যবস্থা নেওয়া হবে। pic.twitter.com/QpvDlkoAER
Murshidabad police shared a video of Shuhdev Bajpayee explaining in details about this accident in Kali temple.
নওদার কালীমন্দিরের ঘটনা নিয়ে সেখানকার মন্দির কমিটির সেক্রেটারির বক্তব্য আপনাদের সকলের জন্য। আপনাদের সকলের কাছে অনুরোধ কেউ গুজব ছড়াবেন না আর গুজবে বিশ্বাস করবেন না।আর যারা গুজব ছড়াবেন বা ছড়ানোর চেষ্টা করবেন, তাদের বিরুদ্ধে কঠোর আইনানুগ ব্যবস্থা নেওয়া হবে। pic.twitter.com/oNogRm2uGJ
To sum it up, photos of the Maa Kali idol that caught fire in an accident are falsely shared giving a communal colour.
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/09/Muslimsl-burned-Kali-Matha-statue-in-West-Bengal-Claim.jpg