URL: https://factly.in/photos-show-damaged-tejas-express-windows-before-its-introduction-on-the-mumbai-karmali-route-in-2017
Photos show damaged Tejas Express windows before its introduction on the Mumbai-Karmali route in 2017 - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-10-10T12:08:04+00:00
Some photos are being shared on social media with a claim that the windows of the newly launched Tejas Express train (on Delhi-Lucknow route) were damaged by some people on the next day of its launch. Let’s try to analyze the claim made in the post.
Claim: Damaged window photos of newly introduced Tejas Express train between Delhi and Lucknow.
Fact: The photos in the post are old photos. According to ANI, “windows of newly launched Tejas Express damaged by unknown people, while it was travelling from Delhi to Mumbai” in May 2017. So, the old photos are being shared as the photos of newly introduced Tejas Express train between Delhi and Lucknow. Hence the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
When searched about the issue on Google with the keywords ‘Tejas Train windows broken’, several news articles published in 2017 can be found in the search results. The photos in the post can be found in a tweet by ANI in May 2017. According to ANI, “windows of newly launched Tejas Express damaged by unknown people, while it was travelling from Delhi to Mumbai”. On the PIB website, it was found that India’s First Tejas Express was introduced between Mumbai and Karmali on 22 May 2017. The train was damaged on its way to Mumbai, before the flagging off event. 
Windows of newly launched Tejas Express damaged by unknown people, while it was travelling from Delhi to Mumbai, yesterday pic.twitter.com/LHMUbW4vkp
Tejas Express was launched on the Delhi-Lucknow route at the Lucknow Junction Railway Station on 4 October 2019. So, old photos are being shared as the photos of the newly introduced Tejas Express train between Delhi and Lucknow.
Uttar Pradesh CM @myogiadityanath flags off the much awaited first corporate train of the country, Lucknow-Delhi #Tejas Express today at the Lucknow Junction Railway Station. #Tejas will have all modern facilities for the passengers. pic.twitter.com/YxvWOxcvEb
To sum it up, photos show damaged Tejas Express windows before its introduction on the Mumbai-Karmali route in 2017.
Did you watch our new Episode of the DECODE series?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/10/Kanpur-Tejas-Windows-broken-FB-Post.jpg