URL: https://factly.in/photos-of-the-leopard-attack-in-maharashtra-is-falsely-shared-as-the-attack-on-srisailam-ghat-road
Photos of the Leopard attack in Maharashtra from 2018 is falsely shared as the attack on Srisailam ghat road - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-08-27T08:44:32+00:00
A post is being shared on social media claiming that two persons were killed in a leopard attack on the Srisailam ghat road. In the post, a series of leopard photos are being shared. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Two persons killed in a leopard attack on the Srisailam ghat road.
Fact: Photos shared in the post are related to an incident that took place in Chiplun of Maharashtra, in the year 2018. Leopard in the photo attacked the forest officials when they tried to trap her in a cage at Ganekhadpoli village near Chiplun. It has nothing to do with Srisailam ghat roads in Andhra Pradesh. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of photos shared in the post, we found similar images in an article published by ‘Sakal’ news website on ‘11 December 2018’. In the article, it is mentioned that this incident took place at Ganekhadpoli village near Chiplun in Maharashtra. It is mentioned in the article that an injured leopard attacked the forest officials near Ganekhadpoli village when they tried to trap her in a cage. It is mentioned that two people were severely get injured in this attack of leopard.
When we searched for other sources using these keywords, we found a video posted by ‘Jai Maharashtra News’ news channel on YouTube. In the description of this video also, it is mentioned as the leopard attack in Chiplun.
Earlier, when similar photos of this leopard were shared with false claims, few fact-checking portals published articles about this incident. It can be seen here and here.
To sum it up, photos of the Leopard attack in Maharashtra from 2018 are falsely shared as the attack on Srisailam ghat road.
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/08/Leopard-attack-on-Srisailam-ghat-road-claim.jpg