URL: https://factly.in/photos-clicked-during-a-tv-serial-shoot-are-being-falsely-shared-as-those-of-indian-army-torturing-a-kashmiri-journalist
Photos clicked during a TV serial shoot are being falsely shared as those of Indian Army torturing a Kashmiri journalist - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-09-17T10:49:36+00:00
Photos of a man being beaten by Policemen inside a prison like room are being shared with the claim that those photos show the Indian Army torturing a Kashmiri journalist Fahad Bhat. Let’s try to analyze the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photos of the Indian Army torturing a Kashmiri journalist Fahad Bhat.
Fact: Photos are of the stills taken during a Hindi TV serial shooting that was broadcasted in 2014. Hence, the claim is FALSE. 
When the photos in the post are subjected to reverse image search, a certain photo among them led us to a YouTube videowith the title ‘Ranveer Gets Beaten Up Brutally In The Lock Up’ and the video had similar visuals as that are seen in the photos. The video was found to be uploaded by a YouTube channel “Indian Forums” on September 4, 2014. 
The video mentions the person name as ‘Shakti Arora’. When searched with that name, it was found that Shakti Arora is an Indian actor. When googled with the keywords ‘shakti arora ranveer’, the search results were obtained about his TV series ‘Meri Aashiqui Tum Se Hi’. So, the photos were the ones taken during the shooting of this tv serial.
As the photos have gone viral with the claim, the ‘Indian Forums’ channel that has uploaded the video has stated in its website that stills from ‘Meri Aashiqui Tumse Hi’ are wrongly being used as ‘Kashmiri Journalist beaten by Indian Army’ and mentions ‘The stills show Shakti’s character Ranveer being beaten up by cops in a pivotal moment on the show’. 
To conclude, photos clicked during a TV series
shooting are falsely shared as those of Indian Army torturing Kashmiri
journalist Fahad Bhat.
Did you watch our new Episode of the DECODE series on Indian Rivers?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/09/TV-serial-as-Kashmir-Fb-post.jpg