URL: https://factly.in/picture-of-statue-of-liberty-replica-in-france-shared-as-new-yorks-statue-of-liberty-draped-in-a-ukrainian-flag
Picture of Statue of Liberty replica in France shared as New York’s Statue of Liberty draped in a Ukrainian flag - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-03-01T14:14:23+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it as a recent picture of New York’s Statue of Liberty draped in the Ukrainian flag. Sharing the post, this post says that the Statue of Liberty wishes for the Liberty and Freedom of Ukraine. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of New York’s Statue of Liberty draped in the Ukrainian flag.
Fact: The photo shared in the post shows a replica of the Statue of Liberty in Colmar, France. Recently, amid the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war, the copper-green resin replica of the Statue of Liberty was draped in Ukraine’s National Flag to show its support for Ukraine. Hence, the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, we found a similar photo tweeted by Franak Viacorka, Senior advisor to Belarusian human rights activist Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya. Franak Viacorka mentioned in a reply tweet that the picture shows the replica of the Statue of Liberty in Colmar, France. He emphasized that the photo does not show the original Statue of Liberty in New York.
It’s not in New York. It’s a replica of Statue of Liberty in French Colmar
When we searched with relevant keywords, we found several news articles reporting this news of Colmar’s Statue of Liberty draped in the Ukrainian flag. They can be seen here and here. These news articles reported that the copper-green resin replica of the Statue of Liberty in French Colmar was draped in Ukraine’s National Flag to show its support for Ukraine.
To sum it up, a picture of the replica of the Statue of Liberty draped in the Ukrainian flag is shared as New York’s true Statue of Liberty.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/03/Statue-of-Liberty-draped-in-Ukraine-Flag-Claim.jpg