URL: https://factly.in/pictures-of-a-100-feet-long-american-dream-car-falsely-shared-as-shahrukh-khans-limousine-in-dubai
Pictures of a 100-feet long ‘American Dream’ car falsely shared as Shahrukh Khan’s Limousine in Dubai - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-11-09T07:36:30+00:00
A collage of images is being shared on social media claiming thee are visuals of actor Shahrukh Khan’s personal Limousine in Dubai. This post claims that apart from Shahrukh Khan’s family, only PM Modi was allowed to sit inside this luxury Limousine. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Pictures of Shahrukh Khan’s luxury Limousine in Dubai.
Fact: The images shared in the post show the ‘American Dream’, the world’s longest car designed by Hollywood car customiser Jay Ohrberg in 1992. The 100-feet long limousine was designed based on 1976 Cadillac Eldorado limousines. This car earned the Guinness World Record title for the world’s longest car in 1999. The post does not show the Limousine owned by Bollywood Actor Shahrukh Khan in Dubai. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the pictures shared in the post, similar pictures were found in an article published by the ‘Amar Ujala’ news website in 2018. ‘Amar Ujala’ reported it is the pictures of ‘American Dream’, the world’s longest Limousine designed in the United States in the ‘90s. Reporting the same, several news websites published articles sharing the same pictures. They can be seen here, here and here.
When we searched for further sources using relevant keywords, we found details of this car on the Guinness World Records website. The Guinness World Records website described it as the visuals of the 26-wheeled world’s longest car designed by the Hollywood car customiser Jay Ohrberg in 1992. This 100-feet long American Dream car received the Guinness World Record for being the world’s longest car in 1999. According to the article, the American Dream limo was designed based on the 1976 Cadillac Eldorado limousines. This American Dream Limousine was featured with the amenities like a helipad, jacuzzi, water bed, swimming pool and others. In March 2022, The American Dream restored its glory as the World’s longest car by breaking its own record by a small fraction. ‘The Express’ news website published the same picture with the description, “The world’s longest car is on display at a museum in Florida measuring over 100 feet in length.”
Multiple Arab news websites published articles in 2014 reporting that Shahrukh Khan and his wife made an impressive entry by stepping down from their personal luxury Limousine at an event in Dubai. Several Indian news websites published articles reporting that PM Narendra Modi used Shahrukh Khan’s personal Limousine during the Commonwealth meeting held in the United Kingdom, in 2018. They can be read here and here. But we could not find any pictures or videos showing PM Modi using Shahrukh’s Limousine during the Commonwealth meeting held at Buckingham palace in 2018. Though we could not ascertain whether Narendra Modi used Shahrukh Khan’s car during the Commonwealth meeting in 2018, from all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the images in the viral post show the pictures of world’s longest car American Dream, not the Limousine of Shahrukh Khan in Dubai.
To sum it up, pictures of a 100-feet long ‘American Dream’ car displayed at the Florida Museum are shared as Shahrukh Khan’s Limousine in Dubai.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/11/Sharukh-Khans-Limausine-in-Dubai-Claim.jpg