URL: https://factly.in/pictures-shot-during-the-yogi-adityanath-govt-in-up-are-shared-as-despair-conditions-of-schools-during-sp-tenure
Pictures shot during the Yogi Adityanath govt in UP are shared as abysmal condition of schools during SP tenure - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-01-13T11:52:44+00:00
A few prominent BJP National leaders shared a collage of images on social media claiming it as the comparison of infrastructure development under the previous Samajwadi Party government and under the present Yogi Adityanath government after 2017 in Uttar Pradesh. This post shared the conditions of different government schools in Uttar Pradesh. In the wake of the upcoming Uttar Pradesh elections in 2022, this post is being widely shared on social media. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.     
Claim: Collage comparing the condition of schools in UP during Samajwadi Party government with the current Yogi Adityanath’s government.
Fact: Yogi Adityanath was sworn in as Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister on 19 March 2017. All these photos shared in the post are taken during the present Yogi Adityanath’s government in Uttar Pradesh. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Let’s check the details of the photos shared in the post one by one.
Photo-1:
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in the ‘Amar Ujala’ article published on 07 January 2021. This article reported it as the bad condition of a government school in Jafarpur village of Muzaffarnagar district in Uttar Pradesh. Through the article, it is confirmed that the photo was taken during the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh.
Photo-2:
On observing the photo carefully, we could see the ‘Prathamik Vidhyalay Amanpur-Chithrakot’ name on the school building. Also, we could see a date stamp 2018-8-8 on the photo. On reverse image search of the photo, a similar photo was found in an article published by the ‘UttarPradesh.org’ website in 2018. Sharing the photo, this website reported that teachers including students are facing trouble because of water logging in Amanpur primary school in Chitrakot district, Uttar Pradesh. So, it can be confirmed that the photo shared in the post was taken in 2018 during the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh.
Photo-3:
On reverse image search, a similar photo was found in an article published by the ‘News Adda’ news website on 17 December 2020. This article reported it as the visuals of a primary school that was found locked during a sudden inspection in Sukrauli town in Uttar Pradesh. There are several such reports about locked primary schools in Uttar Pradesh during the Yogi Adityanath government’s tenure as the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh.
Photos 4, 5, and 6:
On reverse image search of the photos shared in the post, it is found out that all these photos shared in the post show the visuals inside an astronomy lab built in a government school in Bulandshahr, Uttar Pradesh. BJP National Secretary Y. Satya Kumar shared similar photos through a tweet on 03 January 2022. Further information related to this new astronomy lab built in Uttar Pradesh can be seen here. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that all photos shared in the post were taken after Yogi Adityanath was sworn in as Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister in March 2017.
A silent revolution is taking place in govt schools of Uttar Pradesh. These pictures are of a govt school in Bulandshahr.Kudos to @myogiadityanath Ji. pic.twitter.com/gdwsCO4WfL
To sum it up, pictures taken during the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh are shared as the abysmal condition of schools during the Samajwadi party’s tenure.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/01/UP-School-Infrastructure-development-under-Yogi-Government-Claim.jpg