URL: https://factly.in/picture-of-a-sculpture-in-thailand-museum-is-shared-as-that-from-kashiraj-kali-temple-in-varanasi-india
Picture of a Sculpture in Thailand Museum is shared as that from Kashiraj Kali temple in Varanasi, India - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-03-26T13:59:53+00:00
An image is being shared on social media claiming it as a beautiful sculpture inside the Kashiraj Kali Mandir in Varanasi. This post mentions it as the most beautiful sculpture in India better than even the Taj Mahal. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of a beautiful sculpture inside the Kashiraj Kali Mandir in Varanasi.
Fact: This sculpture is at ‘The Sanctuary of Truth’ museum in Pattaya city, Thailand. ‘The Sanctuary of Truth’ is a gigantic wooden construction filled with the ancient Hindu and Buddhist sculptures. This sculpture is not from India. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar sculpture photo was found in the ‘iStock’ image sharing website. This website mentioned it as a religious sculpture, constructed inside ‘The Sanctuary of Truth’ museum in Pattaya city, Thailand. When we searched for more information using the keywords, a similar photo of the sculpture is found on ‘Tripadvisor’ website. This website also mentioned it as one of the beautiful sculptures inside ‘The Sanctuary of Truth’, a religious construction in Pattaya city of Thailand.
Similar visuals of the sculpture were found in the YouTube videos posted by a few tourists of ‘The Sanctuary of Truth’. They can be seen here and here. Also, the same sculpture is found in the Google Street View inside ‘The Sanctuary of Truth’. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the sculpture shared in the post is from ‘The Sanctuary of Truth’ museum in Thailand.
‘The Sanctuary of Truth’ is a sanctuary constructed by a Thailand millionaire with an intent to keep traditional craftsmanship alive. It was commissioned to act as a place of appreciation for philosophy, art, culture, and faith, without being tied to a single religion.
To sum it up, a sculpture in ‘The Sanctuary of Truth’ museum is being shared as the beautiful sculpture inside the Kashiraj Kali temple in Varanasi.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/03/Sculpture-in-Kashiraj-Kali-temple-in-Varanasi-Claim.jpg