URL: https://factly.in/pictures-of-malayalam-actress-anicka-vikhraman-allegedly-assaulted-by-her-ex-boyfriend-shared-with-a-love-jihad-narrative
Pictures of Malayalam actress Anicka Vikhraman allegedly assaulted by her ex-boyfriend shared with a love jihad narrative - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-04-19T09:35:51+00:00
A collage of images is being shared on social media claiming it is the pictures of a Hindu woman who was brutally abused and physically assaulted by her Muslim boyfriend. Adding love jihad context to the incident, the post claims it is the pictures of a communist secular Hindu woman named Ankita Vijay who was brutally assaulted by her Muslim boyfriend Abdul. The photo shows a woman showing the injuries on her face, eyes and other parts of her body. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.  
Claim: Pictures of a Hindu woman named Ankita Vijay who was brutally assaulted by her Muslim boyfriend Abdul.
Fact: The woman with injuries and bruises on her body in these pictures is Malayalam actress Anicka Vikhraman. Anicka Vikhraman shared these pictures on her Facebook handle accusing her ex-boyfriend Anoop Pillai of allegedly abusing and assaulting her. The injured girl’s name is not Ankita Vijay and there is no communal angle in the incident. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, one of the pictures was found in an article published by ‘The Indian Express’ news website on 07 March 2023. The article reported it is the pictures by Malayalam actress Anicka Vikhraman while accusing her ex-boyfriend of abusing her mentally and physically for the past few years.
According to the article, in a detailed Facebook post, which was deleted now, Anicka Vikhraman shared these pictures and narrated her ordeal and horrific abusive relationship with her ex-boyfriend Anoop Pillai. Anicka Vikhraman reportedly accused Anoop Pillai of abusing her mentally and physically for the past few years. Reporting the details and the pictures Anicka Vikhraman shared in her Facebook posts, several news websites published articles in March 2023. They can be seen here and here.
Anicka Vikhraman’s ex-boyfriend Anoop Pillai denied these allegations made by Anicka Vikhraman saying that Anicka had injured herself in an inebriated state and posted pictures intentionally to spread false propaganda against him. The injured woman in the pictures is Anicka Vikhraman, and her ex-boyfriend whom she accused of mental and physical assault is not a Muslim.
To sum it up, pictures of Malayalam actress Anicka Vikhraman allegedly assaulted by her ex-boyfriend were shared with a love jihad narrative.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/04/Love-Jihad-victim-picture-Claim.jpg