URL: https://factly.in/picture-of-banjara-singer-is-being-circulated-as-that-of-ranchi-collector-taking-charge-in-traditional-uniform
Picture of Banjara singer is being circulated as that of Ranchi Collector taking charge in traditional uniform - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-05-05T06:47:57+00:00
A post is being shared across social media platforms claiming that the first Banjara (Tribal) community collector in India, Smt. Shobha Rathod joined at Ranchi (Jharkhand) in traditional uniform. Let analyse the claims made in the post.
 Claim : First Lady of Banjara (Tribal) community, Smt. Shobha Rathod become a District Collector and joined at Ranchi (Jharkhand) in traditional uniform
 Fact : There is no IAS officer with the name Shobha Rathod in the Civil List and Ranchi Deputy Commissioner has mentioned that it’s a fake news.  The Ranchi Deputy Commissioner’s name is Mahimapat Ray. Hence the claim made is FALSE.
Ranchi official website lists all the IAS officers of Ranchi and the name Shobha Rathod is not listed there. It is also to be noted that Ranchi has the designation of ‘Deputy Commissioner’ instead of ‘Collector’.  Rai Mahimapat Ray, the Deputy Commissioner of Ranchi through his official twitter account has responded to one such post confirming that the news is fake while requesting to delete and not share it.
To confirm if there is any IAS officer in India with the name Shobha Rathod, we searched the IAS Civil List and found that there is no IAS officer in the country with the name Shobha Rathod. To verify whose picture is being shared as that of Ranchi IAS officer, we reverse searched the image and found few results showing her as a Banjara singer. 
To sum it up, the picture claiming Shobha Rathod taking charge in traditional attire as IAS (Ranchi) is fake.
A great believer in democracy, Bharath is convinced that the citizens of this country have a huge role to play in making it successful and effective. But he observes that with misinformation taking centre stage in the socio-political discourse, the very foundation of democracy is at threat. The shared belief that every citizen has the right to factual information without bias is what made Bharath associate with Factly since its inception. He heads Operations and Fact-checking projects at Factly.
Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/05/Shobha-Rathod-FB-Post.png