URL: https://factly.in/police-brutality-image-in-the-post-isnt-related-to-the-jnu-fee-hike-protests
‘Police brutality’ image in the post isn’t related to the ‘JNU fee hike’ protests - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-11-19T11:54:24+00:00
A post with an image that shows police brutality on students is doing rounds on social media claiming it to be related to the recent ‘JNU fee hike’ protests. Let’s try to check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Image of Police brutality on students during the recent ‘JNU fee hike’ protests.
Fact: The image shows policeman beating a demonstrator during the protests against gang-rape of a woman in New Delhi in December 2012. So, it is in no way related to the recent protests against ‘JNU fee hike’ and the claim is FALSE.
From the article of ‘The Hindu’, it can be found that, since the past few days, students of JNU are protesting demanding the withdrawal of draft hostel manual and proposed hike in the hostel fees. 
When the image in the post is subjected to Google reverse image search technique, many search results were obtained. Among them, the search result of ‘Hindustan Times’ had the same image in its article about protests against gang-rape of a woman in New Delhi in December 2012. The same image can be also found in the ‘Reuters’ photo stock with the following description – ‘A policeman wields his baton against a demonstrator near the presidential palace during a protest rally in New Delhi December 22, 2012. Indian police used batons, tear gas and water cannon to turn back thousands of people marching on the presidential palace on Saturday in intensifying protests against the gang-rape of a woman on the streets and on social media’.
To conclude, the image in the post isn’t related to the recent ‘JNU fee hike’ protests. It is related to protests against the gang-rape of a woman in New Delhi in December 2012. 
Did you watch our new Episode of the DECODE series?

Pingback: ‘Police brutality’ image in the post isn’t related to the ‘JNU fee hike’ protests - Fact Checking Tools | Factbase.us

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/11/JNU-protests-FB-post-1024x496.jpg