URL: https://factly.in/remove-cab-make-india-a-muslim-nation-placard-found-at-priyanka-gandhis-anti-caa-protest-is-photoshopped
‘Remove CAB. Make India a Muslim nation’ placard found at Priyanka Gandhi’s anti-CAA protest is photoshopped - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-12-23T12:03:20+00:00
A photo is being shared widely on social media with a claim that ‘Muslim nation’ (‘कैब हटाओ, इस देश को मुस्लिम राष्ट्र बनाओ’) placard was seen at Priyanka Gandhi’s protest against CAA and NRC at the India Gate. Let’s try to analyze the claim made in the post. 
Claim: ‘Remove CAB.  Make India a Muslim nation’ poster at Priyanka Gandhi’s anti-CAA protest at the India Gate.
Fact: The placard has been photoshopped. The original placard reads – ‘लाठी-गोली नहीं, रोजगार-रोटी दो’ (English – ‘Not lathis and bullets, give us jobs and roti’). Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
In the posted photo, it can be seen that the woman wearing a full-handed jacket was holding the placard with the ‘Muslim nation’ slogan.
When the image was run through Google Reverse Image Search, the exact photo was not found. But, many similar photos from that event were found in the search results. In a photo, on the ‘UNI’ website, it can be seen that the woman was holding a placard which reads – ‘लाठी-गोली नहीं, रोजगार-रोटी दो’ (English – ‘Not lathis and bullets, give us jobs and roti’). Also, in a photo on ‘The Print’ website, it can be seen that the woman was holding the ‘jobs-roti’ placard, not ‘Muslim nation’ placard.
On the placards held by people around Priyanka Gandhi, none of them had the slogan regarding making India a ‘Muslim nation’.
To sum it up, a photoshopped image is shared as ‘Remove CAB. Make India a Muslim nation’ placard found at Priyanka Gandhi’s anti-CAA protest.
Did you watch our new Episode of the DECODE series?

Looks the photo it self is completely different, if you watch closely there is wide difference in both photos. Before publishing any article request you to check frame by frame and the publish. Published both photos are different.
If you look at the original image in the article it is not different from the one shared but just taken from a different angle. You can check the surrounding persons in both the pictures. https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/Priyanka-Gandhi-Muslim-Rashtra-Comparison-768×384.jpg

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/12/Priyanka-Gandhi-Muslim-Rashtra-FB-Post-1024x462.jpg