URL: https://pesacheck.org/satire-this-image-of-a-book-allegedly-authored-by-president-uhuru-kenyatta-is-satirical-f89cddc6d7b5
SATIRE: This image of a book allegedly authored by President Uhuru Kenyatta is satirical | by PesaCheck | PesaCheck

Publication Date:2022-08-05T10:53:34.406Z

Listen
Share
A Facebook post claiming to show an image of a book allegedly authored by President Uhuru Kenyatta with the title, “How to make EVERYONE BROKE EXCEPT YOU & YOUR FAMILY” is satirical.
“Please grab your copy of this Book. Now available at the Bookshops near you. “HOW TO MAKE EVERYONE BROKE”. Author: Uhuru Kenyatta,” the Facebook post reads.
An image of the book, allegedly written by President Kenyatta, is also attached to the Facebook post.
The cover indicates that the title’s forward is jointly written by former Prime Minister Raila Odinga and Baringo County Senator Gideon Moi.
Images of President Kenyatta and a man demonstrating his empty pockets are part of the book cover.
To confirm the authenticity of the book, we checked the State House Kenya Facebook page and Twitter account but did not find any announcement of the publication of the book. No credible media house has reported on the same.
We contacted Government Spokesperson Col. (Rtd) Cyrus Oguna, who said the book is not genuine.
“Would President Kenyatta write a book with a title like that? Not just Uhuru Kenyatta, even anybody else? Be it William Ruto, Uhuru Kenyatta, Raila Odinga or even you? At this point in time, you must be able to differentiate between statements that are said for political expediency and what is said to build and hold the nation together. It is important to note that there will be those people who throw cold water into what has been achieved, which is a lot,” Oguna told this fact-checker by phone.
Further research indicates that the image originated from Gatundu South Member of Parliament Moses Kuria. The legislator, who shared it on his Facebook page, captioned the image, “Grab your copy NOW. Coming tomorrow in a bookshelf next to you”.
We contacted Kuria and he told us in a text message that the Facebook post was meant to be “satirical”.
In March 2019, Kenyatta released a book with the title, “Uhuru Kenyatta: A legacy of democracy and development”.
The book, which is edited by Sunday Nation columnist Peter Kagwanja, details the events in President’s Kenyatta’s two terms, leading up to the 9 March 2018 handshake with Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) leader Raila Odinga.
PesaCheck has looked into a Facebook post claiming to show an image of the cover of a book allegedly authored by President Uhuru Kenyatta with the title “How to make EVERYONE BROKE EXCEPT YOU & YOUR FAMILY” and finds it to be SATIRICAL.

Image URLs :
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/0*uwwZZNa9JXcB8KFb