URL: https://factly.in/screengrabs-from-an-old-scripted-comedy-video-shared-as-yogi-adityanths-intimate-pictures-with-a-woman
Screengrabs from an old scripted comedy video shared as Yogi Adityanth’s intimate pictures with a woman - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-08-23T11:52:00+00:00
A collage of images is being shared on social media claiming that the pictures depict Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath being in physically close and intimate pose with a woman. Amid Rajnikanth’s defence for his action of bowing to Yogi Adityanath, citing a longstanding tradition of expressing reverence to Yogis or Sanyasis by touching their feet, this post is going viral on social media. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photos of Yogi Adityanath in physically close and intimate pose with a woman.
Fact: The photos shared in the post are from an old scripted comedy video and the man who is seen intimate with a woman in these photos was not Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.
On reverse image search of the photos shared in the post, videos showing similar visuals were found published by several YouTube channels at least since 2016. A few of those videos can be seen here, here, here, and here.
A disclaimer provided in the video stated that all the characters portrayed in the video are fictional and said that the video was made for entertainment purposes.
On comparing the visuals of the man seen in the video with the images of Yogi Adityanath, it is confirmed that the man who was seen intimate with a woman in the photos is not Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. In March 2017, BJP Yuva Morcha filed a complaint in cybercrime against a person for falsely attributing these images to Yogi Adityanath on social media. Though we could not find the original creator of this video, from all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the post shared screengrabs from an old scripted comedy video that has nothing to do with Yogi Adityanath.
To sum it up, screengrabs from an old scripted comedy video are shared as Yogi Adityanth’s intimate pictures with a woman.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/08/Yogi-Adityanaths-intimate-pictures-with-a-woman-Claim.jpg