URL: https://factly.in/seema-haiders-ex-husband-is-still-alive-unrelated-old-videos-and-images-shared-as-the-funeral-procession-visuals-of-seema-haiders-ex-husband
Seema Haider's ex-husband is still alive; Unrelated old videos and images shared as the funeral procession visuals of Seema Haider's ex-husband - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-11-23T08:49:24+00:00
A video is being shared on social media claiming it shows visuals of Seema Haider’s ex-husband’s funeral procession in Pakistan. The post alleges that Seema Haider’s ex-husband has recently deceased in Pakistan. The video shows the visuals and the images of funeral processions. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.  
Claim: Video showing Seema Haider’s ex-husband’s funeral procession in Pakistan.
Fact: The video shared in the post actually shows the funeral procession of a Palestinian youth and a retired Indian army soldier from Rajasthan. There are no news reports confirming the demise of Gulam Haider, the ex-husband of Seema Haider. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.  
Upon conducting a search to verify the post’s assertion regarding the passing of Seema Haider’s ex-husband, we could not find any latest news reports confirming the demise of Gulam Haider, the ex-husband of Seema Haider. Had Seema Haider’s ex-husband recently deceased, several news websites would have likely reported this information. The latest news reports about Seema Haider’s ex-husband Gulam Haider can be seen here and here.
Video:
On reverse image search of the screenshots of the video, a video showing similar visuals was found published by the Wafa Agency news channel on 08 October 2022. The news site reported it is the funeral procession of a 14-year-old youth, Adel Ibrahim Daoud, allegedly killed by the Israeli Forces in the West Bank City of Qalqilya. Several news sites published articles reporting about the death and the funeral procession of Adel Ibrahim Daoud in October 2022. So, it can be confirmed that the video shared in the post is old and has nothing to do with Seema Haider.
Image:
On reverse image search of the funeral procession photo shared in the video, the same photo was found in an article published by the ‘Dainik Bhaskar’ news website in 2022.   They reported it as a picture from the funeral procession of Hanuman Singh Tanwar, a retired army soldier who took part in the 1971 Indo-Pak war. The image shared in the post was old and had nothing to do with Seema Haider.
To sum it up, old funeral procession videos and images are shared as the funeral procession visuals of Seema Haider’s ex-husband.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/11/Funeral-procession-of-Seema-Haiders-ex-husband-Claim.jpg