URL: https://factly.in/sonia-gandhis-image-with-how-to-convert-india-into-christian-nation-book-is-morphed
Morphed image shared as Sonia Gandhi with ‘How to Convert India into Christian Nation’ book - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-06-02T14:17:57+00:00
A post is being widely shared on social media claiming that on zooming the right side of a Sonia Gandhi’s image, one can see a book titled ‘How to convert India into Christian Nation’. In the image being shared, one can also see ‘Holy Bible’ book and a replica of Jesus Christ. Let us fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Sonia Gandhi’s image with ‘How to Convert India into Christian Nation’ book.
Fact: According to pictures in various news articles and Rahul Gandhi’s Twitter post, we can conclude that the image has been morphed. When the left-hand side part of the image is zoomed in, we can see a watermark named ‘@noconversion’, by which we can conclude clearly that this image had been morphed. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When google reverse image search was performed, we found news articles containing similar images of Sonia Gandhi. One such news article from the Hindustan Times says that Congress President Sonia Gandhi hits out at the Central Government over the recent farmers’ protest. According to the caption of the image present in the article, the image was a screenshot from the video posted by @INCIndia (official twitter handle of Indian National Congress). The same image has been used in various news articles at various times, which can be seen here, here and here. Upon careful observation in all the images in the articles, there is no presence of the books ‘How to convert India into Christian Nation’ or ‘Holy Bible’ or the replica of Jesus Christ.
Taking cue that Sonia Gandhi’s image in the above article was a screenshot from a video, we searched for videos containing a similar image. We found Rahul Gandhi’s Twitter post which had a video, and the frames of the video had the same images that were in the news articles. Even in that video, there is no presence of books ‘How to convert India into Christian Nation’ or ‘Holy Bible’ or a replica of Jesus Christ.
‘बदलाव की बयार है।’कांग्रेस अध्यक्ष श्रीमती सोनिया गांधी जी का बिहार की जनता के नाम संदेश आपसे साझा कर रहा हूँ।नए बिहार के लिए एकजुट होकर महागठबंधन को जीताने का समय है। pic.twitter.com/ptmzjEjQuh
When the image in the post and the image in the news articles were compared side by side, we can see that the image in the post was morphed.
When the left-hand side part of the image in the post is zoomed, we can see a watermark named ‘@noconversion’, by which we can conclude clearly that this image had been morphed by someone with that social media handle.
To sum it up, this image of Sonia Gandhi with ‘How to Convert India into Christian Nation’ book is morphed.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/06/Esoniabook_post.jpg