URL: https://factly.in/swaminarayan-akshardham-temple-photo-shared-as-the-design-of-ram-temple-in-ayodhya
Swaminarayan Akshardham temple photo shared as the design of Ram temple in Ayodhya - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-03-11T12:52:17+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media with a claim that it is the design of the Ram temple to be constructed in Ayodhya. Let’s try to analyze the authenticity of the claim made in the post.
Claim: Design of the Ram temple to be constructed in Ayodhya.
Fact: The temple shown in the posted picture is of Swaminarayan Akshardham temple in Delhi. Also, the construction design for the Ram temple in Ayodhya is not yet finalised. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.   
When the posted picture was searched using the reverse image technique, it was found that the photo is of Swaminarayan Akshardham temple in Delhi. So, when searched about that temple on Google maps, the same photo shared in the post was found. More photos related to that temple can be seen here. Therefore, the photo shown in the post is not a construction design of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, it’s a photo of Swaminarayan Akshardham temple in Delhi.
When searched on Google to see if the construction plan for the Ram temple in Ayodhya is finalised, no information was found to confirm it. From an article published by ‘The New Indian Express’ on 29 February 2020, it was understood that an organisation called Larsen and Toubro (L&T) came forward to offer construction and design plan for the Ram temple. However,  a member from the ‘Sriram Teerth Kshethra Trust’ has said that the board meeting will be conducted on the first week of March to decide whom it has to handover the responsibility of the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. So, the board is yet to take a decision on who will design the construction plan for the Ram temple in Ayodhya.
To sum it up, the photo of the temple shared in the post is of Swaminarayan Akshardham temple in Delhi. The construction plan for the Ram temple in Ayodhya is not yet finalised.
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/03/Ram-Temple-Design-Fb-Post.png