URL: https://factly.in/the-photo-of-killing-a-cow-on-the-indian-flag-and-burning-the-flag-was-taken-in-pakistan-not-in-kashmir
The photo of killing a cow on the Indian flag and burning the flag was taken in Pakistan, not in Kashmir - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-06-20T13:09:48+00:00
A post with 4 images is being shared on Facebook with a claim that a cow was killed on the Indian flag and the flag was burnt in Kashmir. Also, the images show that the police were attacked during the incident in Kashmir. Let’s try to analyze the claims made in the post.
Claim: A cow was killed on the Indian flag and the flag was burnt in Kashmir. Policemen were also attacked.
Fact: The photo of killing a cow on the Indian flag and burning the flag was taken in Pakistan, not in Kashmir. Also, the images of injured policemen in the post were taken from unrelated incidents across the country. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.  
Let’s analyze the claims made in the post by running each image in the post through Google Reverse Image search:
Picture 1:The photo was found in an article published in 2011. The photo was taken in Agartala, not in Kashmir. The policeman was attacked by the Congress party activists.
Picture 2:This photo, where a cow is being killed and the Indian flag is being burned, was not found in any news articles published by credible sources. There were some tweets suggesting that the photo was taken in Pakistan. But a fact-checker, back in 2017, concluded that the photo was taken in Pakistan by the logic that the brand ‘Digger’ (hoarding on the back in the photo) is a footwear company in Pakistan. To cross-check, when looked for the logo present on the other hoarding in the picture, it was found that it was the logo of ‘Nishat Linen’, a clothing brand based in Pakistan. So, it can be concluded that the photo was taken in Pakistan.
Picture 3:This photo was taken in 2014 during a protest in Uttar Pradesh. The injured policeman in the photo was the DIG of UP Police. So, it is in no way connected to Kashmir.
Picture 4:The photo was found in a photo feature titled ‘Sikh protesters in Jammu’ in an online news portal. The policeman in the photo was injured when angry Sikh protestors came on to the roads against the removal of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale poster at Rani Ragh near the Jammu airport. So, the photo is not related to any incident related to the killing of a cow.
To sum it up, the photo of killing a cow on the Indian flag and burning the flag was taken in Pakistan, not in Kashmir.
 Did you watch our new Episode of DECODE Lite series.

In Bhosari balo ko nhi rhaa keya Hindustan me bhej use jisne y kiya hai agar hamare desh wasio ko kuch huaa to samajh le tu hinduHind se mullo ka name mit jayga
Quite possible that Police photos are not relate to that cow incident. Also it is possible that many cow killings may have happened in Pakistan. How will that conclude that this cow killing did not happen in Kashmir? So many Pakistani hands and brands are in Kashmir. Why can’t Pakistani brand things be in Kashmir?

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/06/Cow-killed-on-Flag-FB-Post.jpg