URL: https://factly.in/the-drone-boy-in-the-photo-is-harshwardhan-zala-not-mohammad-zubair
The ‘Drone’ boy in the photo is Harshwardhan Zala, not ‘Mohammad Zubair’. - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-11-15T12:38:28+00:00
An image of a boy is being widely shared on Facebook with a claim that his name is Mohammed Zubair and he invented a drone which can detect landmines. The claim goes onto say that the media isn’t showing him because he is a Muslim. Let’s try to analyze the claim made in the post. 
Claim: Photo of Mohammad Zubair, who invented a drone which can detect landmines. Media isn’t showing him because he is a Muslim
Fact: The boy in the photo has invented a drone which detects landmines but the boy’s name is not ‘Mohammad Zubair’. He is Harshwardhan Zala. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When the image was run through the Google Reverse Image Search, a similar photo was found in an article published by the ‘Huffington Post’ in 2017. In the article, it can be read that he signed an ‘agreement worth Rs 5 crore with the Gujarat government for a laser drone which can help detect hidden landmines in war fields.” But, in the article, it is mentioned that his name is Harshwardhan Zala (not ‘Mohammad Zubair’). On searching with the name ‘Harshwardhan Zala’, various newspaper articles confirming his name as ‘Harshwardhan Zala’ can be found in the search results.
Also, recently, Friday Magazine has published his photo on its cover calling him the ‘Drone Boy’.  
In this issue's cover, Harshwardhansinh Zala, an award-winning prodigy whose invention is helping save millions of lives. In an exclusive, the 'drone boy' talks about his creations and his dream project, nly in this new issue of @Friday_Magazine. Out tomorrow! pic.twitter.com/Le7k9WX2Bw
To sum it up, the ‘Drone’ boy in the photo is Harshwardhan Zala, not ‘Mohammad Zubair’.
Did you watch our new Episode of the DECODE series?

Pingback: The ‘Drone’ boy in the photo is Harshwardhan Zala, not ‘Mohammad Zubair’. - Fact Checking Tools | Factbase.us

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/11/Drone-boy-FB-Post.jpg