URL: https://factly.in/the-two-kids-in-the-photo-are-missing-from-coimbatore-not-l-b-nagar-hyderabad
The two kids in the photo are missing from Coimbatore, not L.B. Nagar (Hyderabad) - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-09-10T11:25:57+00:00
A photo of two kids is being shared widely on social media with a claim that there are missing from L.B. Nagar, Hyderabad. Let’s try to analyze the claim made in the post. 
Claim: Photo of the kids missing from L.B. Nagar, Hyderabad.     
Fact: Kids in the photo are not missing from L.B. Nagar (Hyderabad) but from Coimbatore. The Rachakonda Police has tweeted that no such missing case was reported in L.B. Nagar. The Ramanathapuram Police in Coimbatore has confirmed that the two kids in the photo and their father are missing from Coimbatore, and a missing case was filed at their station. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.   
When looked for some information on the missing children, it was found that the Rachakonda Police has tweeted the same photo and wrote that no such missing case was registered at L.B. Nagar Police Station. They also called it as ‘Fake news’.
We urge the citizens not to believe/spread the #FakeNews. #RachakondaPolice @TelanganaDGP @TelanganaPolice @hydcitypolice @cyberabadpolice @XpressHyderabad @timesofindia @IGWomenSafety @DCPEASTZONE pic.twitter.com/KSswo7mfRx
It was found that Tamil actor Dhanush has also tweeted the same photo without specifying the location of missing. The same photo was also shared as a missing case from Coimbatore.
When searched on Google with the keywords ‘குழந்தைகளைக் காணவில்லை’ (‘kids missing’ in Tamil), it was found that a local news website in Coimbatore has written an article on this missing case. In the article, it was found that a missing case regarding the two kids (Shasha Laydisa (9) and Sarah Laydisa (4)) and their father (Ashwin Terry Sam (37)) was filed by the kids’ mother at Ramanathapuram Police Station (Coimbatore). To confirm the news, FACTLY has contacted the Ramanathapuram Police Station. The Ramanathapuram SI has confirmed that a missing case has been filed at their station regarding the two kids in the photo. So, it can be concluded that the two kids in the photo are in no way connected to L.B. Nagar or Hyderabad.
To sum it up, the two kids in the photo are missing from Coimbatore, not L.B. Nagar (Hyderabad).
Did you watch our new Episode of the DECODE series on Indian Rivers?

Pingback: The two kids in the photo are missing from Coimbatore, not L.B. Nagar (Hyderabad) - Fact Checking Tools | Factbase.us
Factly, a request. When reporting such news stories, since you have talked to the police station there – could you please update whether the kids are safe? I understand it has nothing to do with LB Nagar or Hyderabad but still worried about the kids.
We were told they were found in Chennai. A news article about this update is here
http://simpli-city.in/news-detail.php?nid=57872

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/09/L.B.-Nagar-missing-kids-FB-Post.jpg