URL: https://factly.in/the-married-couple-in-this-photo-with-big-age-difference-were-not-father-and-daughter
The married couple in this photo with a big age difference are not father and daughter - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-04-19T12:24:34+00:00
A post with a collage of images is being shared on social media claiming that a man has fallen in love with his daughter and recently married her in Gujarat. The post shared a picture of a middle-aged man getting married to a young girl and also a picture of the marriage registration certificate. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Picture of a man who got married to his own daughter in Gujarat.
Fact: The married couple with a big age difference in the photo were not father and daughter. Dinesh Kumar, a resident of Botad city in Gujarat’s Bhavnagar district has recently married Zapadia Shitalben from the Surendra Nagar district of the same state. Both the bride and groom belong to two different families. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the bride and bridegroom photo shared in the post, similar pictures of the married couple were found in several articles recently published by the local Gujarati news websites. They can be seen here and here. These articles reported that a young girl married a father-aged man in the name of love. According to these articles, Dinesh Kumar, a resident of Gujarat’s Bhavnagar district got married to Zapadia Shitalben from the Surendra Nagar district of the same state.  This marriage reportedly took place in Botad city in Gujarat.
Reporting the complete details of this incident, a few news articles published the same marriage registration certificate picture as shared in the post. When one observes the marriage registration certificate carefully, one could see that the name of the bridegroom and the bride’s father’s name mentioned on the marriage certificate are different. According to the family particulars mentioned on the marriage registration certificate, it can be confirmed that the bride and groom in the picture belong to two different families.
To sum it up, the married couple in this photo with a big age difference are not father and daughter.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/04/Man-who-marriaged-his-own-daughter-in-Gujarat-Claim.jpg