URL: https://factly.in/the-person-dancing-with-a-foreign-lady-in-the-photo-is-not-mahatma-gandhi-but-an-australian-artist
The person dancing with a woman in this photo is not Mahatma Gandhi, but an Australian artist - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-01-06T11:29:08+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it as the visuals of the Mahatma Gandhi cheerfully dancing with a British woman at a party during the Indian freedom movement. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of Mahatma Gandhi dancing with a British woman at a party.
Fact: The photo shared in the post shows an Australian artist dressed up in Mahatma Gandhi’s attire and dancing with a woman during an old charity gala event held in Sydney, Australia. The person dancing in the photo is not Mahatma Gandhi. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in an article published by the ‘Bollywood Life’ website on 21 February 2012. This article reported it as the visuals of an Australian artist dressed up exactly like Mahatma Gandhi and dancing with a woman in a charity gala event held in Sydney, Australia. This article clarified that the person dancing with a foreigner is not the real Mahatma Gandhi. Reporting the same, several news websites have published articles. They can be seen here and here.
On observing the photo carefully, we could see that the person in Mahatma Gandhi’s attire has a different build, unlike the real Mahatma Gandhi, with strong muscles. Mahatma Gandhi was naturally very skinny. Also, the footwear the person is wearing in the photo is modern when compared with the footwear Mahatma Gandhi had during the Indian Freedom Movement. On comparing the photo shared in the post with original pictures of Mahatma Gandhi, we can confirm that the person dancing with a woman in the photo is not Mahatma Gandhi.
Earlier, when a morphed image of Mahatma Gandhi posing in close proximity with a woman was circulated on social media, FACTLY published a fact-check article debunking that claim.
To sum it up, the person dancing with a woman in the photo is an Australia-based artist dressed up as Mahatma Gandhi.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/01/Mahatma-Gandhi-dancing-with-a-British-lady-Claim.jpg