URL: https://factly.in/the-woman-in-the-photo-with-rahul-gandhi-is-jharkhand-congress-mla-amba-prasad-not-karnatakas-muskan-khan
The woman in the photo with Rahul Gandhi is Jharkhand Congress MLA Amba Prasad, not Karnataka’s Muskan Khan. - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-02-11T12:35:03+00:00
A photo through a post is being widely shared on social media claiming that Muskan Khan, Karnataka’s hijab-wearing girl, had met with Rahul Gandhi. Let us fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of Muskan Khan, Karnataka’s hijab-wearing girl, when she met Rahul Gandhi.
Fact: The woman in the photo is not Muskan Khan. The woman is Congress MLA  Amba Prasad from Jharkhand. Recently, a video of Muskan Khan, a Muslim girl student wearing hijab, who was confronted by students wearing saffron stoles in Karnataka went viral. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When reverse image search is done on the photo along with some keywords, the same photo was found on the official Facebook page of Amba Prasad. Amba Prasad is a Member of the Legislative Assembly from Barkagaon in Jharkhand. She is a member of the Indian National Congress. This photo was taken on 08 February 2022 when she met Rahul Gandhi along with other Congress MLAs from Jharkhand. The same photo was posted by Amba Prasad on her Instagram page.
When the same photo went viral on social media claiming the woman to be Muskan Khan, Amba Prasad had clarified that it was indeed her in the photo. She requested the Jharkhand Police to act on those who were spreading such false news. When Rahul Gandhi met Jharkhand MLAs recently, even Amba Prasad was present at his New Delhi residence.
यह मैं हूं।@INCIndia पार्टी से बड़कागांव की विधायक।इस फोटो को कर्नाटक की बुर्का वाली लड़की कहकर कलह फैलाने की कोशिश की जा रही तो बता दूं हमारी पार्टी में सबको सम्मान और अधिकार है।भगवा वस्त्र हो या हिजाब।@JharkhandPolice कृपया ऐसे ट्वीट पर फेक कमेंट वालों पर कार्रवाई करें। https://t.co/vU1CnnLBMn
Recently, a video of Muskan Khan, a Muslim girl student wearing a hijab, who was confronted by students wearing saffron stoles in Karnataka went viral.
To sum it up, the woman in the photo with Rahul Gandhi is Jharkhand Congress MLA Amba Prasad, not Karnataka’s hijab-wearing girl Muskan Khan.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/02/Rahul-Gandhi-Photo-With-Karnataka-Hijab-Girl_post.jpg