URL: https://factly.in/the-american-government-hasnt-printed-shivajis-image-on-its-100-dollar-note
The American government hasn’t printed Shivaji’s image on its 100 dollar note - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-02-18T13:56:04+00:00
A photo of Chhatrapati Shivaji on USD 100 note is being circulated by many users with the claim that the American government has printed the image of Shivaji on the country’s 100$ note out of respect for him. Also, it was mentioned that the American government has declared ‘19 February’ as the ‘World Chhatrapati Day’. Let’s try to analyze the claims made in the post.
Claim: American government has printed the image of Shivaji on USD 100 note. Also, it has declared ‘19 February’ as the ‘World Chhatrapati Day’.
Fact: The 100 USD note carries the image of Benjamin Franklin. The American government has never printed any other person’s image on its 100 dollar currency note. And, there is no information regarding the declaration of ‘19 February’ as the ‘World Chhatrapati Day’ by the American Government. Hence, the claim stands FALSE.
When googled about the details of various currency notes published in America, the Currency Education Program’s website uscurrency.gov was found in the search results. As per the information available on the website, the design of the American dollar has changed 4 times but all of them carried the image of Benjamin Franklin. So, the American government has never printed Shivaji’s image on its country’s currency note.
There are few websites which allow replacing the image on 100 USD note with an image of our choice. You can notice that one such 100$ note, with the Obama picture on it, has the same code as the one shared in the post. So the 100$ note with Chhatrapati Shivaji image could have also been created in a similar manner.
Also, when searched if the American government has declared ‘19 February’ as the ‘World Chhatrapati Day’, no such news was found. Also, in a list of Commemorative Days observed in America, there is no mention of ‘World Chhatrapati Day’. So, the news is false.  As per the Maharashtra government’s holidays list, ‘19 February’ is the birth anniversary of Chhatrapati Shivaji.
Earlier, when similar news about the American government printing the image of Ambedkar on their country’s $ 100 note went viral, ‘FACTLY’ has debunked it and the article can be read here.
To sum it up, the American government hasn’t printed Shivaji’s image on its 100$ note. Also, it hasn’t declared ‘19 February’ as ‘World Chhatrapati Day.
Did you watch our new video in the DECODE series?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/02/Shivaji-on-USD-100-note-FB-post.jpg