URL: https://factly.in/the-people-in-the-images-werent-faking-injuries-they-were-showing-solidarity
The people in the images weren’t faking injuries. They were showing Solidarity - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-01-08T10:28:30+00:00
A post with a screenshot of a tweet that has few photos is being widely shared on social media with a claim that the protestors seen in the picture were faking injuries to play the victim card. Let’s analyze the authenticity of that claim.
Claim: Protestors faking injuries with bandage over Hijab to play the victim card.
Fact: The people in the images were portraying victims & showing solidarity with those who were injured during protests. One protest was held in solidarity with victims of pellet guns in Kashmir while the other was held in solidarity with Minhajuddin, a Jamia Student who lost an eye during the CAA protests. Hence the claim is FALSE.      
The post has a screenshot of a tweet and that tweet can be found here. When the four photos in the tweet were subjected to Google reverse image search, they were found to be of persons portraying as victims who were injured during protests.
When they get admitted in Madarsa and treated by a Mullah for gynecological problem😂 pic.twitter.com/1bixchpUzW
Images 1, 2 & 3 :
The images (1, 2 & 3) are that of Kashmiri doctors and paramedics with their eyes covered by patches to emulate the plight of victims of pellet guns who were injured during the protests in Kashmir sparked after the death of Burhan Wani in August 2016.
The last photo shows one of the protestors who wore bandages over an eye in solidarity with Minhajuddin, a Jamia student who lost an eye during the CAA protests. Earlier, when the same image went viral with the same claim of ‘protestor faking injuries’, FACTLY has debunked it and the fact check article can be found here.
The method of protesting by portraying the victims is not new. Many people around the world protest against various actions by dressing up to portray the victims. The news articles regarding those protests can be read here, here, here and here.
To sum it up, the people in the images weren’t faking injuries. They were portraying victims who were injured during protests against some actions.
Did you watch our video on the 10 Most Ridiculous Fake News of the Year 2019?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/01/Faking-injuries-FB-post-1024x780.jpg