URL: https://factly.in/the-person-in-the-photo-is-not-moinuddin-his-name-is-pankaj-he-joined-jnu-in-2019
The person in the photo is not ‘Moinuddin', his name is ‘Pankaj’. He joined JNU in 2019 - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-11-24T13:27:24+00:00
A post with a photo is being widely shared on Facebook with a claim that the person in the photo is a 47-year-old Moinuddin from Kerala, and he has been studying in JNU since 1989. Let’s try to analyze the authenticity of the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of a 47-year-old Moinuddin who has been studying in JNU since 1989.
Fact: The person in the photo is not ‘Moinuddin’, his name is ‘Pankaj’.  He has not been studying in JNU since 1989. He is just 30 years old. So, the claim made in the post is FALSE.   
Responding to the tweet which mentions similar information in the post, a user ‘Pankaj Anarchio’ tweeted that he is the person in the photo. He also mentioned in the tweet that he is a research scholar from JNU’s Center of Social Medicine and Community Health. Also, from a video published by a news website called ‘janjwar’, it can be seen that his name is Pankaj.
Dear Troll and Bhakt, I am here only, I am Social Medicine and Community Health Research Scholar. I took admission after working 4 years in Community health in UP and Bihar.  Do you have any problem.. will you people decide when one person should study?@AltNews @AMISHDEVGAN https://t.co/EA75YtJeuh
From his Facebook profile, it is learnt that he joined JNU in 2019. If he were a student in JNU since 1989, as mentioned in the post, his name would have been seen in the JNU’s website under 2016-17 list of M.Phil and Ph.D. registered students in ‘Center of Social Medicine and Community Health – CSMCH’ section, but it was not found. 
To summarize, the name of the person in the photo is not ‘Moinuddin’, his name is ‘Pankaj’. He joined JNU in 2019. 
Did you watch our new Episode of the DECODE series?

Pingback: The person in the photo is not ‘Moinuddin’, his name is ‘Pankaj’. He joined JNU in 2019 - Fact Checking Tools | Factbase.us
Toh bahot hi chota student he. Aur isko 10 rps mein room ka rent chahiye. Jab kamai karne laga he. Waah re logic. Logon ko bhakta bulao tum log kya kar rahe ho chaat rahe ho ek dusaron ke talawe.
Pingback: The man in the image is 67-year-old Kancha Ilaiah, a Political theorist and Dalit activist from Telangana - Fact Checking Tools | Factbase.us

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/11/47-Year-JNU-Student-Fb-Post.png