URL: https://factly.in/the-shiva-lingam-in-the-photo-is-neither-located-in-sri-lanka-nor-is-108-ft-tall
The Shiva lingam in the photo is neither located in Sri Lanka nor is 108-ft tall. - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-07-30T15:13:56+00:00
An image of a Shiva lingam is being shared widely on social media with a claim that it is a 108-feet Shiva lingam located in Sri Lanka. In the post, it is also being claimed that the Shiva lingam is the tallest in the world. Let’s try to analyze the claim in the post.
Claim: Photo of 108-feet Shiva lingam, the tallest located in Sri Lanka.
Fact: The Shiva lingam in the photo is neither located in Sri Lanka nor is 108-ft tall. It is a 63-ft Shiva lingam which is located at Nagireddypalle in Bhongir (Telangana). Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.  
When the photo in the post was run through the Yandex Reverse Image Search, a similar Shiva lingam photo from another angle was found in the search results. On the photo, it was written that it belongs to a Facebook/YouTube page called ‘Siddhaguru’.
When searched with keywords ‘Shiva Lingam Siddhaguru’, a link to a website (Siddhaguru Sri Ramanananda Maharshi) with similar Shiva lingam photos can be found in the search results. In the website, it can be read that the Shiva Lingam in the photo is 63-feet tall and is located at Nagireddypalle, Bhongir, Telangana. The details about the location of the site and Siddhaguru can be read here.
Also, when searched for the tallest Shiva lingam, it was found that the tallest Shiva lingam in India is 111.2-feet Shiva lingam of Maheshwaram Sri Shiva Parvathy Temple in Kerala. So, the Shiva lingam in the post is not the tallest in the world.
To sum it up, the Shiva lingam in the photo is neither located in Sri Lanka nor is 108-ft tall. It is 63-ft tall and is located in Telangana.
Did you watch our new Episode of the DECODE series on Parliament?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/07/108ft-Shivling-in-SL-FB-Post.jpg