URL: https://factly.in/the-man-sitting-on-the-stairs-along-with-an-old-woman-in-this-photo-is-bhupalpally-district-collector-abdul-azeem
The man sitting on the stairs along with an old woman in this photo is Bhupalpally District Collector Abdul Azeem. - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-09-04T16:38:57+00:00
A photo of a man sitting alongside an old woman on the steps of a building entrance is being shared widely on social media with a claim that the man in the photo is a Judge at the District Court in ‘Bhuvanapalli’, Telangana. It is being claimed that Judge Abdul Haseem came downstairs to meet the old woman as she was unable to climb the stairs and resolved her 2-year pending issue. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post
Claim: Photo of Bhuvanapalli (Telangana) District Court Judge Abdul Haseem sitting on stairs along with an old woman and resolving her pending issue.
Fact: The man in the photo is not a District Judge and there is no ‘Bhuvanapalli’ district in Telangana. While the incident is true, the man in the photo is ‘Jayashankar Bhupalpally’ District Collector Abdul Azeem. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When the image in the photo was run through Google Reverse Image Search, the same photo was found in an article published by ‘The Hans India’ in February 2020. In the article, it can be read that the person sitting along with the old woman in the photo is ‘Jayashankar Bhupalpally’ District Collector Abdul Azeem. He saw the old woman sitting on the steps and enquired about her issue. When she informed him about her old-age pension issue, ‘the Collector immediately spoke to the DRDO Sumathi ensured the sanction of pension to Mangamma’.
This incident was also reported by other news agencies too. The same picture is also available on the official website of the district.
Also, on the official website of Jayashankar Bhupalpally district, the profile of Mohd Abdul Azeem IAS can be seen. So, it can be concluded that the man in the photo is not a District Judge. There is also no district with the name – Bhuvanapalli in Telangana.
To sum it up, the man sitting on the stairs along with an old woman in this photo is Bhupalpally District Collector Abdul Azeem.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/09/Collector-Old-Woman-FB-Post.jpg