URL: https://factly.in/the-girl-seen-in-the-photo-hugging-michelle-obama-during-a-graduation-ceremony-isnt-her-daughter
The Woman seen in the photo hugging Michelle Obama during a Graduation Ceremony isn’t her daughter - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-06-19T12:56:59+00:00
An old Facebook post is being shared again with the claim that, during a University’s Graduation Ceremony, US former First Lady Michelle Obama has hugged her daughter who wore a cap that had a quote by Prophet Muhammad printed on it. Let’s try to check the veracity of the claim made in the post.
Claim: Michelle Obama’s daughter wore a cap printed with a quote by Prophet Muhammad on it during her Graduation Ceremony.
Fact: The woman hugging Michelle Obama, with a quote by Prophet Muhammad on her graduation cap is from Yemen named Orrubba, who graduated from ‘The City College of New York’ in 2016. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When the photo in the post is run through Google Reverse Image Search technique, it was found in the Instagram account of Michelle Obama. It was posted in 2016 and from the description of the photo, it was found to be taken during the Graduation Ceremony of ‘The City College of New York’ in 2016.
Michelle Obama was found to have posted another photo of the woman whom she hugged (the woman holds the same cap and also has the same dark blue hijab over her head) in the Graduation Ceremony. By going through the description of the photo, it was found that she is from Yemen and her name is Orrubba. 
Michelle Obama has two daughters Malia Obama and Sasha Obama. From an article published by the BBC in 2017, it was found that the elder daughter Malia has joined for Graduation course in Harvard University in 2017 and the other daughter, Sasha was still in High School.
To summarize, the woman seen hugging Michelle Obama during a Graduation Ceremony with a quote by Prophet Muhammad on her graduation cap isn’t her daughter. She is from Yemen named Orrubba. 
Did you watch our new Episode of DECODE Lite series.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/06/Obama-daughter-Graduation-FB-post.jpg