URL: https://factly.in/the-terrorist-seen-with-bsf-jawans-in-the-image-hasnt-revealed-that-he-was-sponsored-by-rss
The terrorist seen with BSF jawans in the image hasn’t revealed that he was sponsored by RSS - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-01-30T14:08:09+00:00
A post with a photo and a message is being widely shared on Facebook. The photo shows a person arrested by two army jawans and the message claims that the person is a terrorist and was caught in Kashmir. And during his investigation, he had revealed that Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) sponsored him weapons and funds to kill Hindus, so as to instil hatred against Muslims in the minds of Hindus. Let’s analyze the claim made in the post. 
Claim:  The terrorist with BSF jawans in the image confessed that RSS sponsored him weapons and funds to kill Hindus.
Fact: The man arrested is Abdul Qayum, an activist of Pakistan-based terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). He was arrested in 2016 when he tried to cross the International Border at Pragwal Sector of Akhnoor area (Jammu district). During investigation by officials, he hasn’t revealed that RSS had sponsored him weapons and funds for his activities. So, the claim is FALSE.
On a simple reverse image search, a news report of ‘DNA’ with the same image was found. From the article, it was found that BSF troops have arrested Abdul Qayum, an activist of Pakistan-based terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), when he tried to cross the International Border at Pragwal Sector of Akhnoor area of Jammu district. Also, upon interrogation by the BSF sleuths, Qayum revealed that he underwent militant training with LeT outfit at Mansera training camp in Muzaffarabad (PoK). But, in the article, there was no mention of Qayum confessing about links with the RSS. The same can also be found in another news report, which can read here. So, in the investigation, Qayum confessed about his links with LeT, not RSS. 
To sum it up, the terrorist seen with BSF jawans in the image hasn’t revealed that he was sponsored by RSS.
Did you watch our new video in the DECODE series?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/01/Terrorist-RSS-sponsored-FB-post.jpg