URL: https://factly.in/the-boy-in-the-image-was-injured-while-cleaning-his-schools-chemistry-laboratory
The boy in the image was injured while cleaning his School's Chemistry laboratory - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-12-11T13:43:03+00:00
A post with a screenshot is being widely shared on Facebook claiming that in Tamilnadu, the management of a ‘Christian’ school has made a child clean toilets for wearing ‘Ayyappa’ mala and the boy was injured due to spilling of acid during that act. Let’s analyze the authenticity of the claim.
Claim: Image of a boy in Tamilnadu, who was made to clean toilets with acid as a punishment for wearing Ayyappa mala.
Fact: The boy in the image was injured due to spilling of acid while cleaning his School’s Chemistry laboratory along with four other students. He was not given punishment for wearing the Ayyappa mala. So, the claim is FALSE.
With the information in that screenshot, when searched on Google with the text ‘Tamilnadu good shepherd school student acid burns’, many search results were obtained. Among them, the search result of ‘TheTimes of India’ had a shorter picture of the second photo in the screenshot. From the article, it was found that the boy in the photo is ‘Maharaja’, a student of ‘Good Shepherd High School (TN)’ and was injured due to spilling of acid while he was cleaning his school’s Chemistry laboratory along with four other students. The students were cleaning the lab as per the instructions of his headmaster.
The same is also known from the ‘The New Indian Express’ article. The boy was not given any punishment for wearing Ayyappa mala. 
To conclude, the boy in the image was injured due to spilling of acid while cleaning up his School’s Chemistry laboratory. 
Did you watch our new Episode of the DECODE series?

Pingback: The boy in the image was injured while cleaning his School’s Chemistry laboratory - Fact Checking Tools | Factbase.us

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/12/Ayyappa-Deeksha-student-mistreated-FB-post-1-1024x745.jpg