URL: https://factly.in/the-lady-posing-along-with-pm-modi-and-rahul-gandhi-in-these-photos-is-not-the-chinese-diplomat
The lady posing with PM Modi and Rahul Gandhi in these photos is not a Chinese diplomat - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-05-07T11:51:56+00:00
A collage of images is being shared on social media claiming it as the picture of PM Modi posing with the alleged Chinese diplomat with whom Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had apparently partied at a nightclub in Nepal. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of PM Modi  with the alleged Chinese diplomat with whom Rahul Gandhi had partied at a nightclub in Nepal.
Fact: The woman posing with PM Narendra Modi and Rahul Gandhi in these photos is Nepal singer Saraswoti Katri. Saraswoti Katri shared this photo of her along with PM Modi in October 2018. Saraswoti Katri is not a Chinese diplomat. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, we found a few social media posts sharing the same photos and mentioning her as Nepal singer Saraswoti Katri. When we searched for details about the woman seen in these photos using keywords, we could find the photo on the Instagram handle of Saraswoti Katri. Saraswoti Katri, a popular singer in Nepal, shared this photo of her along with Narendra Modi on 23 October 2018.
In October 2018,  Narendra Modi made tweets mentioning Saraswoti Katri for her song ‘Vaishnava Jana To’. Saraswoti Katri too thanked Modi for his tweets about her song.
गान्धीजी को प्रिय भजन “वैष्णव जन” #सुरसुधा सांगीतिक समूह नेपालकी सरस्वती खत्रीको सुमधुर आवाजमा श्रवण गर्न पाउँदा मेरो  नेपाल भ्रमणको स्मृतिहरू ताजा भएको छ | “पीर पराई जाने रे” भजनले भारत र नेपालको सभ्यतामा निहित मूल्यलाई प्रतिबिम्बित गर्दछ | #Gandhi150 https://t.co/psAUp8lD7c
Lately, Saraswoti Katri shared another picture of her along with Rahul Gandhi. This photo was taken during Rahul Gandhi’s friend’s wedding ceremony in Nepal. The identity of the woman who was seen Rahul Gandhi at a nightclub in Nepal is still unknown. But the woman who was seen along with Rahul Gandhi and Narendra Modi in these photos is Nepal singer Saraswoti Katri, not the Chinese diplomat.
Music has the power to bring all people together. I had an honor to sing few songs for Honorable member of Indian Parliament member Mr. Rahul Gandhi ji yesterday evening. I found him such humble & simple person.Thanks to Sumnima ji, Nima Ji for this opportunity. pic.twitter.com/QbAZ9TEmLh
To sum it up, the lady posing along with PM Modi and Rahul Gandhi in these photos is Nepal singer Saraswoti Katri, not a Chinese diplomat.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/05/Narendra-Modi-photo-with-the-Chinese-diplomat-who-partied-along-with-Rahul-Gandhi-in-Nepal-Claim.jpg