URL: https://factly.in/the-beef-menu-in-this-photo-is-not-related-to-silly-souls-goa-cafe-bar-goa
The ‘beef’ menu in this photo is not related to ‘Silly Souls Goa Cafe & Bar (Goa)’ - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-07-28T09:22:11+00:00
A photo is being shared widely on social media with a claim that it is a menu card of ‘Silly Souls Goa Cafe & Bar’, a restaurant in Goa that is allegedly run by Smriti Irani’s daughter Zoish Irani. In the post, it is pointed out that the menu card shows beef being served at the restaurant. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Menu card of ‘Silly Souls Goa Cafe & Bar’, allegedly run by Zoish Irani, shows beef among the items served at the restaurant.
Fact: The menu card in the post is not related to ‘Silly Souls Goa Cafe & Bar (Goa)’. It is the menu of ‘Upper Deck – Radisson Blu Resort (Goa)’. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When the photo was run through Google Lens, a similar photo was found in the search results. The same menu (with the same items and description) can be seen on the ‘eazydiner’ website as the ‘Menu of the Upper Deck, Radisson Blu Resort, Goa’. A similar menu of the same restaurant can be also found on the Zomato website. So, the posted photo shows the menu of ‘Upper Deck – Radisson Blu Resort (Goa)’, not ‘Silly Souls Goa Cafe & Bar (Goa)’.
On looking at the menu of ‘Silly Souls Goa Cafe & Bar (Goa)’ available on different websites, we could only find the mention of chicken, pork, fish, prawns, and lamb. We also found a mention of ‘Pepperoni’, but we are not sure of its ingredients. So, there is no explicit mention of beef on the menu anywhere. While we could not confirm whether beef is served at the restaurant or not, the menu in the posted photo is definitely not related to ‘Silly Souls Goa Cafe & Bar (Goa)’.
To sum it up, the ‘beef’ menu in the posted photo is related to ‘Upper Deck – Radisson Blu Resort (Goa)’, not ‘Silly Souls Goa Cafe & Bar (Goa)’.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/07/Irani-Goa-Menu-FB-Post-895x1024.jpg