URL: https://factly.in/the-person-in-this-photo-collage-is-yasin-malik-not-farooq-ahmed-dar
The person in this photo collage is Yasin Malik, not Farooq Ahmed Dar - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-03-17T14:15:34+00:00
A photo collage through a post is being widely shared on social media claiming that the photos are of Terrorist Farooq Ahmed Dar. Let us fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo collage of Terrorist Farooq Ahmed Dar.
Fact: All the images in the photo collage are of Yasin Malik, and not Farooq Ahmed Dar. Yasin Malik is a Kashmiri separatist leader who is the chief of the banned militant organisation, Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF). JKLF was involved in the genocide of Kashmiri Pandits. Farooq Ahmed Dar, also known as Bitta Karate, killed many Kashmiri Pandits during the 1990 genocide in Kashmir. He is also part of the JKLF. Hence, the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
There are a total of four images of the same person with well-known individuals, in the photo collage. When reverse image search is done on these images in clockwise direction from top-left, it was found that the person in these images is not Farooq Ahmed Dar but Yasin Malik.
Yasin Malik is a Kashmiri separatist leader who is the chief of the banned militant organisation, Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF). JKLF was involved in the genocide of Kashmiri Pandits. He is presently in Tihar Jail; he was charged in 2020 in a case where four IAF personnel were killed in 1990.
Image with Manmohan Singh:
This image was taken in February 2006 when Yasin Malik met the then Prime Minister of India, Dr. Manmohan Singh in New Delhi.
Image with Arundhati Roy:
This image was taken in 2005 when Arundhati Roy is seen shaking hands with Yasin Malik in New Delhi.
Image with Farooq Abdullah:
This image was at least available since 2006 when former Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah met with JKLF chief Yasin Malik.
Image with terrorist Hafeez Saeed:
This image was taken in Islamabad when Yasin Malik met Jamat-ud-Dawah (JuD) chief Hafiz Saeed who is a wanted terrorist in India because of his role in the 2008 Mumbai attacks.
Farooq Ahmed Dar, also known as Bitta Karate, killed many Kashmiri Pandits during the 1990 genocide in Kashmir. He is a terrorist who is part of the JKLF, but the person in the photo collage is Yasin Malik and not Farooq Ahmed Dar.
To sum it up, the person in this photo collage is Yasin Malik, not Farooq Ahmed Dar.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/03/Farooq-Ahmed-Dar-Terrorist-Photo-Collage_post.jpg