URL: https://factly.in/the-man-posing-with-bhagwat-mann-in-this-photo-is-not-the-sidhu-moosewalas-murder-suspect-goldy-brar
The man posing with Bhagwat Mann in this photo is not Sidhu Moosewala’s Murder suspect Goldy Brar - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-05-31T08:34:15+00:00
A photo is being widely shared on social media claiming it as Punjab CM Bhagwat Mann’s picture with Goldy Brar, a Canada based gangster who claimed responsibility for singer & Congress leader Sidhu Moosewala’s Murder. This post shared a screenshot of a Facebook post purportedly made by gangster Goldy Brar and alleges it was an old post of him congratulating Bhagwat Mann. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Punjab CM Bhagwat Mann’s picture with Goldy Brar, the gangster who claimed responsibility for Sidhu Moosewala’s Murder.
Fact: The photo shared in the picture shows Bhagwat Mann posing along with a Mohali based businessman Goldy Brar. He is not the gangster Goldy Brar who claimed responsibility for the Murder of Sidhu Moosewala. Hence, the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
On reverse image search of the photo using relevant keywords, we found the same photo posted by a Facebook user named Goldy Brar, on 10 March 2022. Lately, when his photo went viral linking to the murder of Sidhu Moosewala, this Facebook user shared a video on 29 May 2022 and clarified that he was not the Canada-based gangster Goldy Brar who claimed responsibility for the Sidhu Moosewala’s Murder. He said, “I am Goldy Brar, son of Rajinder Singh from village Jandwala. My picture is being misused on social media in connection with today’s tragic incident of the murder of Sidhu Moose Wala. I will take proper legal action against those”.
While he was giving an interview to the ‘Daily Ajit’ news website, he mentioned his full name as Manjit Singh Goldy Brar. Reporting the clarification given by Manjit Singh Goldy Brar, several news websites published articles. They can be seen here and here.
A few hours after the killing of Popular Punjabi singer and Congress politician Sidhu Moosewala, a Canada-based gangster Satwinderjit Singh, alias Goldy Brar, claimed responsibility for the Murder. Several news websites published articles reporting the original picture of gangster Goldy Brar. They can be seen here and here. On comparing these pictures with the photo shared in the post, it can be confirmed that the man posing with Bhagwat Mann in the photo is not Sidhu Moosewala’s murder suspect Goldy Brar.
To sum it up, the man posing with Bhagwat Mann in the photo is not Sidhu Moosewala’s Murder suspect Goldy Brar.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/05/Bhagwat-Mann-piture-with-Goldy-Brar-Claim.jpg