URL: https://factly.in/the-boy-in-the-photo-is-not-jack-ma-he-is-fan-xiaoqin-an-8-year-old-look-alike-of-jack-ma
The boy in the photo is not Jack Ma. He is Fan Xiaoqin, an 8-year-old look-alike of Jack Ma. - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-12-09T11:32:58+00:00
A photo is being shared widely on social media with a claim that the small boy in the photo is Jack Ma, a billionaire entrepreneur who is the co-founder of the Alibaba group. Let’s try to analyze the claim made in the post. 
Claim: The small boy in the photo is Jack Ma.
Fact: The boy in the photo is not Jack Ma. He is Fan Xiaoqin, an 8-year-old look-alike of Jack Ma. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When the photo was run through the Google Reverse Image Search, an article published by the ‘Shanghaiist’ with the same image was found in the search results. In the article, it can be read that the boy in the photo is a look-alike of Jack Ma. His name is Fan Xiaoqin. He is also being called as ‘Mini Jack Ma’. On a ‘Getty Images’ page, it can be read that the boy “grows in a poor family as his father has lost a leg, his mother has poliomyelitis and is blind in one eye, and his grandma is Alzheimer’s patient at Yongfeng County in Jiangxi”.
When the videos and photos of Fan went viral previously in 2016, it was reported by various media channels that Jack Ma will fund the education of his 8-year-old look-alike. Some of the Indian media channels also reported the same. But, later, it was found that it is just a rumour. According to an article in the ‘Fortune’, a spokesperson from the Alibaba group has denied the reports. Talking to the ‘Fortune’, the spokesperson said that the news is completely false. 
Guess who's the real #JackMa of #Alibaba? The 2nd richest Chinese to fund education of his poor 8-yr-old look-alike https://t.co/iw5mZRJ8bf pic.twitter.com/S61ZTuRlsb
To sum it up, the boy in the photo is not Jack Ma. He is Fan Xiaoqin, an 8-year-old look-alike of Jack Ma.
Did you watch our new Episode of the DECODE series?

Pingback: The boy in the photo is not Jack Ma. He is Fan Xiaoqin, an 8-year-old look-alike of Jack Ma. - Fact Checking Tools | Factbase.us

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/12/Small-boy-Jack-Ma-FB-Post-1024x612.jpg