URL: https://factly.in/these-images-do-not-show-ram-temple-which-is-under-construction-in-ayodhya
These images do not show Ram Temple construction in Ayodhya. - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-11-02T12:42:14+00:00
A post carrying a set of images is being widely shared on social media platforms with the claim that these images are of the Ram Mandir which is being constructed in Ayodhya. Through this article let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Images of Ram Mandir which is being constructed in Ayodhya.
Fact: The images actually show the main complex of the Kashi Vishwanath Temple which is under construction. The images have nothing to do with the Ram Temple which is being constructed in Ayodhya. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
The reverse image search of the photos in the post led us to a news article dated 03 October 2020 which carried the same image. According to the article, the image is of the main complex of Kashi Vishwanath temple in UP which is under construction. In the article, it can be seen that the picture is attributed to ‘HT Photo’. This confirms that the image is not of the Ram Temple which is being constructed in Ayodhya.
We could not find any news articles or official government press releases sharing similar images attributing them to Ram Temple of Ayodhya. Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra, which is the official trust set up by the government of India for the construction and management of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, through a tweet on 09 October 2020 shared few images related to the latest development of the construction of the temple which can be seen here.
Jai Shri Ram!The work of shifting the carved stones from the workshop to the Mandir premises has started. The stones will be used in construction of Shri Ramjanmabhoomi Mandir. pic.twitter.com/Vn3P4IvLHk
As far as the latest development regarding the construction of the temple is concerned,  Nripendra Mishra, Chairman of the Ram Mandir Construction Committee on 31 October 2020 said that they are awaiting a report from IIT Chennai regarding the strength of the three pillars in the foundation of the temple.  
To sum it up, these images are of Kashi Vishwanath Temple which is under construction. They are not related to Ayodhya Ram Mandir.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/11/Photos-Ram-Mandir-FB-Post.jpg