URL: https://factly.in/these-pictures-show-sonia-and-rahul-gandhi-with-chef-augusto-cabrera-not-businessman-navneet-kalra
These pictures show Sonia and Rahul Gandhi with chef Augusto Cabrera, not businessman Navneet Kalra - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-05-11T14:32:05+00:00
A collage with a couple of images is being shared on social media claiming it as the pictures of Delhi-based businessman Navneet Kalra, posing with Congress leaders Sonia and Rahul Gandhi. Recently, Delhi Police personnel have seized more than 500 oxygen concentrators in Navneet Kalra’s Khan Chacha, Town Hall, and Nege & Ju restaurants in Delhi. In the wake of Navneet Kalra’s oxygen concentrator black marketing case, this photo collage is being shared on social media.  Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of Delhi-based businessman Navneet Kalra posing with Congress leaders Sonia and Rahul Gandhi.
Fact: The person posing with Congress leaders Sonia and Rahul Gandhi in the photos is Chef Augusto Cabrera, a managing partner at Town Hall restaurant that is owned by businessman Navneet Kalra. Recently, Delhi Police personnel have seized more than 500 oxygen concentrators in Navneet Kalra’s Khan Chacha, Town Hall, and Nege & Ju restaurants in Delhi. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On searching for this photo collage on Navneet Kalra’s social media handles, a similar photo was found posted on Navneet Kalra Facebook page, on 28 January 2019. Tagging this photo collage to Augusto Cabrera, Navneet Kalra mentioned that the image was taken on 23 January 2015 at his Town Hall restaurant in Delhi.
When we searched for the details of Augusto Cabrera on the Town Hall restaurant website, we found that Augusto Cabrera is a master chef turned entrepreneur who is working at Navneet Kalra owned Town Hall restaurant in Delhi. On searching on the Augusto Cabrera Facebook profile, we found a few pictures of Augusto Cabrera. These pictures confirm that the person posing with Sonia and Rahul Gandhi is Town Hall restaurant chef Augusto Cabrera.
On comparing the photos of Delhi-based businessman Navneet Kalra and the person in the photo collage, it can be observed that the person posing with Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi is not the Delhi oxygen black marketing case accused Navneet Kalra.
To sum it up, the person posing with Sonia and Rahul Gandhi in these photos is Town Hall restaurant master chef Augusto Cabrera, not the Delhi oxygen black-marketing accused Navneet Kalra.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/05/Navneet-Kalra-photo-with-Sonia-and-Rahul-Gandhi-Claim.jpg