URL: https://factly.in/these-four-images-of-pm-modi-in-different-clothing-were-not-taken-on-a-single-day
These four images of PM Modi in different clothing were not taken on a single day - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-06-14T13:50:58+00:00
Multiple photos of PM Modi, through a social media post are being shared widely online claiming that PM Modi changed his clothes four times while meeting four people in a single day. Let us fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Images of PM Modi in four different clothes in a single day.
Fact: The images in the post were taken on four different days and not on the same day. Modi met UP CM Yogi Adityanath on 11 June, Manipur Governor Najma Heptulla on 10 June, Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma on 02 June and Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat on 07 June 2021. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Image 1:
When reverse image search was done on the image, twitter post by PMO India was found with the same image. This post says that the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath met PM Narendra Modi and the post was published on 11 June 2021. The same image was found in a post by the official Twitter handle of Yogi Adityanath on that same day. A news article published on 11 June 2021 says that Yogi Adityanath’s meeting at PM Modi’s residence lasted one hour.
Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, Shri @myogiadityanath met PM @narendramodi. pic.twitter.com/RMyYKf0BlR
Image 2:
When reverse image search was done on the image, twitter post by PMO India was found with the same image. This post says that Manipur Governor Najma Heptulla called on PM Narendra Modi and the post was published on 10 June 2021. A Twitter post by DD News Hindi also published the same image on the same exact day.
Manipur Governor @nheptulla Ji called on PM @narendramodi. pic.twitter.com/NumZx89gpe
Image 3:
When reverse image search was done on the image, a Twitter post by Himanta Biswa Sarma was found with the same image. This post says that in a message of gratitude, Himanta Biswa Sarma met the PM and took his blessings on that day, which, according to the post was on 02 June 2021. According to a news article, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his first visit to the national capital after assuming office.
Gratitude 💐His towering vision has taken India to glorious heights of prosperity. Assam has especially been a beneficiary of Prime Minister Sri @narendramodi’s generosity. It’s a great pride to be serving under him as CM of Assam. Met Adarniya PM & took his blessings today. pic.twitter.com/RJccUij03q
Image 4:
When reverse image search was done on the image, Twitter post by PMO India was found with the same image. This post says that Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat called on PM Narendra Modi and this was published on 07 June 2021. According to a news article, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and apprised him of the COVID-19 situation in the state and the steps being taken by the state government to contain the spread of infection.
Uttarakhand CM Shri @TIRATHSRAWAT called on PM @narendramodi. pic.twitter.com/Cuue9PXTFJ
To sum it up, these four images of Modi in different clothing were not taken on a single day.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/06/modidresschange_post.jpg