URL: https://factly.in/these-images-do-not-show-people-who-wrote-anti-brahmin-slogans-on-jnu-walls
These images do not show the persons who made anti-Brahmin slogans on JNU walls - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-12-06T12:19:06+00:00
In the context of recent Anti-Brahmin slogan controversy at JNU, a photo collage carrying the images of 3 injured persons is being widely shared claiming that they’re the ones who made the anti-Brahmin slogans at JNU. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Images of people who made the anti-brahmin slogans on JNU walls recently.
Fact: The images in the viral post show members of Campaign Against State Repression (CASR) who were allegedly injured in a scuffle with ABVP when they were campaigning at the Delhi University for the upcoming program demanding the release of Prof. Saibaba & other political prisoners. The incident took place on 01 December 2022, and the injured were identified as Aksh Negi, DU bachelor’s student; Entmam-ul-Haque, law graduate from Jamia Millia Islamia etc. However, those responsible for the recent JNU anti-Brahmin slogans are yet to be identified and a probe has been ordered by University Administration. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
We ran a reverse image search using the viral photo collage and found that the same images were shared on the Facebook page ‘Campaign Against State Repression (CASR)’ on 02 December 2022. As per the description, on the evening of 01 December, when the members of CASR, a joint front of nearly 36 organisations, were campaigning at the Delhi University for the upcoming program demanding the release of Prof. Saibaba & other political prisoners, then a scuffle broke out between the members of CASR and ABVP. As a result, the few students were injured. Injured were then admitted to Hindu Rao Hospital.
As per the media reports, two groups complained against each other at Maurice Nagar Police station. FIR copies can be seen here and here. Injured students were identified as Aksh Negi, DU bachelor’s student; Entmam-ul-Haque, law graduate from Jamia Millia Islamia. Other posts regarding this issue can be seen here and here
Moreover, as per the media reports, those who are responsible for recent JNU anti-Brahmin slogans are yet to be identified and a probe has been ordered by University Administration.
To sum it up, the viral images do not show persons responsible for Anti-Brahman slogans on JNU walls.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/12/DU-students-viral-post.png