URL: https://factly.in/these-sunlight-photos-are-not-related-to-the-konark-temple-in-odisha-india
These sunlight photos are not related to the Konark Temple in Odisha (India) - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-06-03T05:52:21+00:00
Some photos are being shared widely on social media with a claim that they show sunrise at the Konark Temple in Odisha. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Sunrise photos taken at the Konark Temple in Odisha.
Fact: While one of the photos was taken at the Angkor Wat temple in Cambodia, the other two photos were taken at the Phanom Rung temple in Thailand. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Photo 1:
When the photo was run through Google Reverse Image Search, the same photo was found on a travel website with the following description – ‘Angkor Wat sunrise’. So, when searched with the keywords, a similar photo of the ‘Angkor Wat’ temple was found on the ‘Getty Images’ website. Many similarities can be seen in both photos.
Also, the same view of the Angkor Wat temple can be seen by facing east in the temple complex on Google Street View.
Photo 2:
A similar photo was found on the ‘Shutterstock’ website, with the following description – ‘Amazing Tourists visit the Prasat Hin Phanom Rung – Entrance gate with sunlight shine through the door in Prasat Phanom Rung Historical Park ancient Khmer temple’. Again, the similarities between the two pictures can be seen.
Also, the Google Street View confirms that the photo was taken at the entrance gate of the Phanom Rung temple in Thailand. In the ‘Bangkok Post’ article, the following can be read – ‘From March 31 to April 2, the Phanom Rung Historical Park Festival will take place at Phanom Rung Historical Park, Buri Ram province, providing visitors a once-a-year chance to see the rays of the rising Sun through all 15 doors of the sanctuary’.
Photo 3:
This photo is also related to Phanom Rung temple in Thailand. A similar photo can be found in a blog article on the Phanom Rung temple. There are many doors in the temple; the similarities in the design of the doors can be seen in both the photos.
A Google Street view of one of the similar doors in the Phanom Rang temple can be seen below.
To sum it up, none of the posted photos are related to the Konark Temple in Odisha (India).
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/06/Konark-sun-rise-FB-Post.jpg