URL: https://factly.in/these-are-not-photographs-sent-by-chandrayaan-2
These are not Photographs sent by Chandrayaan-2 - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-07-27T13:05:35+00:00
Few images and a video (made of images) is being widely shared on social media  with the claim that these are first photographs of earth sent by Chandrayaan-2. Let’s check if these images are indeed captured by Chandrayan 2.
Claim: First photograph of earth,  sent by Chandrayaan 2.
Fact: Multiple pictures from various sources are put together and shared as those captured by Chandrayaan-2. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.  
Let’s trace if these images ever appeared on internet before the launch by Chandrayaan-2 i.e, before July 22, 2019.
Image 1:
A reverse image search of the above picture shows us that it was uploaded in few websites in the year 2014.
Image 2:
This picture is part of the full picture used in the poster of Nicholas Cage movie ‘Knowing’ released in 2009.
Image 3:
A reverse image search of the above picture shows us that it was uploaded in few websites 6 years ago.
Image 4:
A reverse image search on this informs us that this picture was uploaded by NASA on March 2, 2007 as ‘Astronomy Picture of the Day‘
Image 5:
This is a screenshot from the animated video made by NASA/Goddard Space Flight Center Conceptual Image Lab.
Image 6:
A reverse image search of the above picture shows us that it was uploaded in a blog in 2004.
Image 7:
This is the cover photo of the of a book series Karac: Kaldar Warriors #1 released in 2014 and Darrok: Kaldar Warriors #2 released in 2016.
Image 8:
As per the Telegraph article in 2017 this image was taken by astronauts aboard the International Space Station (ISS) of a large plume of smoke, steam and ash erupting from the Sarychev volcano on the Kuril Islands, Russia. It is thought that the eruption has caused a hole to form in the cloud layer above it.
Image 9:
This is another illustration made by NASA/Goddard Space Flight Center Conceptual Image Lab.
Image 10:
A reverse image search of the above picture shows us that it was uploaded on Facebook page Best Photography in 2014.
Image 11:
A reverse image search of the above picture shows us that this was designed to use as a wallpaper for mobiles and was uploaded here in 2012.
Finally multiple pictures from various sources are put together and shared as those captured by Chandrayaan-2.
Did you watch our new Episode of the DECODE series on Parliament?
A great believer in democracy, Bharath is convinced that the citizens of this country have a huge role to play in making it successful and effective. But he observes that with misinformation taking centre stage in the socio-political discourse, the very foundation of democracy is at threat. The shared belief that every citizen has the right to factual information without bias is what made Bharath associate with Factly since its inception. He heads Operations and Fact-checking projects at Factly.
Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/07/Chandrayan2-FB-Post.png