URL: https://factly.in/this-opinion-poll-screenshot-is-an-edited-one-news-24-template-manorama-news-anchor-photo-news-7-tamil-edited-logo
This opinion poll screenshot is edited using – ‘News 24’ template, ‘Manorama News’ anchor photo, ‘News 7 Tamil’ edited logo - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-02-01T12:13:28+00:00
A screenshot of an opinion poll purportedly reported by the ‘News 7’ channel is being shared on social media. It is being claimed that Aam Aadmi Party is predicted to get more seats than Congress and BSP in Uttar Pradesh elections as per the opinion poll. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of an opinion poll on ‘News 7’ channel showing that AAP might win more seats than Congress and BSP in UP.
Fact: The posted screenshot is an edited one. It is a combination of three different items– template from News 24, an anchor photo from ‘Manorama News’ (2016), the edited logo of ‘News 7 Tamil’. There is no Aam Aadmi Party in the opinion poll numbers reported by ‘News 24’. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On running the photo through Google Reverse Image Search, no useful information was found in the search results. So, when we searched with specific keywords from the photo, a video by ‘News 24’ was found in the search results. In the video, the same template can be seen. However, the logo, anchor, and opinion poll numbers are not the same. They have been edited. In the video, ‘News 24’ reported about opinion polls conducted by various agencies but none of the graphics had any numbers about the Aam Aadmi Party.
The anchor photo was picked from a video published by ‘Manorama News’ (a Malayalam News Channel) in 2016.
Also, the ‘News 7 Tamil’ logo has been edited and inserted in the posted photo.
So, three different things (template, anchor photo, channel logo) were combined to make the edited photo in the post. Some have also edited the original ‘News 24’ screenshot to falsely suggest that BSP is getting a majority in the opinion polls.
To sum it up, the posted opinion poll screenshot is an edited one. It is a combination of three different items – a template from News 24, an anchor photo from ‘Manorama News’ (2016), the edited logo of ‘News 7 Tamil’.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/02/News-7-UP-Opinion-Poll-FB-Post-1024x465.jpg