URL: https://factly.in/this-photo-shows-congress-mps-protesting-in-black-attire-against-gst-price-rise-and-unemployment-not-ayodhya-ram-temple
This photo shows Congress MPs protesting in Black Attire against GST, Price rise and unemployment, not Ayodhya Ram Temple - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-11-13T09:37:22+00:00
A photograph that showcases Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, along with other party members in black outfits is widely circulating on social media. The attached claim suggests that this portrayal was a protest against the foundation stone ceremony of the Ram Janmabhoomi temple, which took place on 5 August 2020. Through this fact-checking article, we aim to uncover the authenticity of this claim.
Claim: Rahul Gandhi and other Congress MPs wore black outfits to protest against the foundation stone laying of the Ram Janmabhoomi temple on 5 August 2020.
Fact: While the photograph showing Rahul Gandhi and other Congress MPs in black outfits is real, the reason behind this is the protest against the price hike, unemployment, and GST hike on essential items. The incident took place on 5 August 2022, not 2020, as stated in the claim, and has nothing to do with the Ayodhya Ram Temple. Hence, the claim made in the post is rated as False.
A reverse image search of the viral photograph led us to numerous news reports (here, here, and here) from 2022 containing the same image. Contrary to the claim being made that this incident was tied to the Ram Janmabhoomi temple, it was reported that this was part of a nationwide protest against price rise, unemployment, and GST rate hike on essential items.
These events were mirrored in a photo caption stating, “Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, wearing black clothes, along with party MPs, marches towards Rashtrapati Bhawan as part of party’s nationwide protest over price rise, unemployment and GST hike on essential items, in New Delhi,  5 August 2022.”
This directly contradicts the viral claim and provides substantial evidence that the black attire donned by Rahul Gandhi and the other Congress MPs was not tied to the Ram Janmabhoomi temple. Furthermore, the date provided —  5 August 2022 — does not align with the claim that the black attire was worn as a protest against the foundation stone laying of the temple on  5 August 2020.
To sum up, Rahul Gandhi and other Congress MPs were seen in black attire as part of a protest against price rise, and unemployment, but not in opposition to the foundation stone laying of the Ram Janmabhoomi temple, as the viral claim suggests.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/11/COngress-MPs-wearing-black-clothes--1024x927.jpg