URL: https://factly.in/this-picture-is-not-related-to-the-proposed-underground-rail-cum-highway-tunnel-across-the-brahmaputra-river-in-assam
This picture is not related to the proposed underground rail cum highway tunnel across the Brahmaputra river in Assam - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-06-02T09:35:27+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it as a design picture of India’s first underground road-cum-rail tunnel built across the Brahmaputra River in Assam. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Design picture of the road cum highway underwater tunnel to be built across the Brahmaputra river in Assam.
Fact: The image shared in the post shows the design picture of the Fehmarn Belt, an underwater road and rail tunnel constructed between Denmark and Germany in Europe. While the GoI announced plans to build a rail cum highway underwater tunnel across the Brahmaputra river in Assam, they did not release any design picture of this tunnel.  The photo shared in the post has nothing to do with the underwater rail cum highway tunnel to be built across the Brahmaputra river. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the same photo was found published on the ‘Ramboll’ website. ‘Ramboll’ is a global architecture, engineering and consultancy company founded in Denmark.  Ramboll published this image on their website mentioning it as a design picture of the Fehmarn Belt, an underwater highway cum rail tunnel between Denmark and Germany.
The Tunnel Engineering Consultants, another consultancy that was involved in the construction of the Fehmarn Belt, had also published this image describing it as a design picture of the Fehmarn Belt. The ‘Consultancy.UK’ website too published the same image on their website. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the picture shared in the post shows an old design picture of the Fehmarn Belt tunnel.
Lately, several news websites published articles reporting that the Government of India, in coordination with the Border Roads Organization (BRO), was planning to construct a rail cum highway underwater tunnel across the Brahmaputra river in Assam. The Director-General Border Roads (DGBR) had recently carried out a recce of the site of Rail cum highway underwater tunnel being planned on Brahmaputra River. But neither the Ministry of Railways nor the BRO released the design picture of this underground tunnel planning to be built across the Brahmaputra river.
To sum it up, a design picture of the Fehmarn Belt tunnel is shared as that of the underground rail cum highway tunnel to be built across the Brahmaputra river in Assam.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/06/Design-picture-of-underwater-rail-cum-highway-tunnel-in-Assam-Claim.jpg