URL: https://factly.in/this-photo-of-yogi-adityanath-drinking-water-from-a-handpump-is-before-he-became-the-cm-of-up
This photo of Yogi Adityanath drinking water from a handpump is before he became the CM of UP - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-04-13T06:20:35+00:00
A photo through a post is being widely shared on social media claiming that Yogi Adityanath drinks water from a handpump even after becoming the Chief Minister. Let us fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of Yogi Adityanath drinking water from a handpump after becoming the CM.
Fact: The photo of Yogi Adityanath is available on social media at least since 2016, when he was the MP of Gorakhpur. Yogi Adityanath became the Chief Minister of UP in 2017. Hence, the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
When reverse image search is done on the photo, the same photo was found in a tweet posted on 24 April 2016. So, the photo is old and not taken after Yogi Adityanath became the CM. Yogi Adityanath became the Chief Minister of UP in 2017. According to the tweet, the photo shows the simplicity of Gorakhpur MP Yogi Adityanath. The photo credit had been given to someone named ‘Hargobind Pravah’. We could not find the person named Hargobind Pravah, online. However, the same photo had been shared on Twitter and Facebook (here and here) at least since 2016.
गोरखपुर के सांसद और भावी मुख्यमंत्री (उप्र) योगी आदित्यनाथ जी, सादगी का एक उदाहरण—-फोटो साभार हरगोविन्द प्रवाह जी pic.twitter.com/tah6qzro8F
When Yogi Adityanath was newly elected as the CM of UP in 2017, one picture went viral on social media where he was served ‘Himalaya’ water when others were given ‘Bisleri’ water in a meeting. ‘Himalaya’ water is costlier than ‘Bisleri’. There were different photos of Yogi Adityanath with bottled water near his seating area in meetings, after he became the CM of UP. Those pictures can be seen here, here, and here.
Factly had written a fact-check article in 2020 when the same image was photoshopped and shared as Yogi Adityanath drinking cow urine.
To sum it up, this photo of Yogi Adityanath drinking water from a handpump is before he became the CM of UP.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/04/Yogi-Adityanath-Drinking-Water-From-Pump-After-Becoming-CM-Photo_post.jpg