URL: https://factly.in/this-picture-of-draupadi-murmu-and-mohan-bhagwat-is-a-morphed-one
This picture of Droupadi Murmu and Mohan Bhagwat is a morphed one - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-07-07T12:10:21+00:00
Supreme court lawyer Prashant Bhushan shared a picture on Twitter that shows NDA’s presidential candidate Droupadi Murmu & RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat standing in the same frame. In his post, Prashant Bhushan wrote: “BJP’s presidential candidate Draupadi Murmu visits Mohan Bhagwat at the RSS headquarters in Nagpur! Is there any doubt that she will just be a rubber stamp and not be able to function independently?”.  He later deleted it with apologies to Droupadi Murmu.
However, the same screenshot of the tweet is now being shared on Facebook with a similar claim by others. Let us fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of BJP’s presidential candidate Droupadi Murmu with Mohan Bhagwat at the RSS headquarters in Nagpur.
Fact: The photo is morphed by embedding one image into another. There is no evidence to confirm the meeting of Droupadi Murmu with Mohan Bhagwat at the RSS headquarters in Nagpur recently. Hence, the claim made is FALSE.
As there were no official media reports confirming Droupadi Murmu’s meeting with Mohan Bhagwat, we performed a reverse image search by cropping the picture and found the original pictures here and here.
Picture 1:
आज झारखण्ड सरकार के एक साल पूरे होने के अवसर पर राजभवन में राज्यपाल श्रीमती द्रौपदी मुर्मू जी से मुलाकात की। pic.twitter.com/Si262ts95D
The above picture was shared by Hemant Soren, Chief Minister of Jharkhand, on his Twitter handle on 29 Dec 2020. On completion of one year for the Jharkhand Government, Soren met Droupadi Murmu, the then Governor of Jharkhand at Raj Bhavan.
Picture 2:
राष्ट्रीय स्वयंसेवक संघ की अखिल भारतीय प्रतिनिधि सभा की बैठक आज गुजरात के कर्णावती में प्रारम्भ हुई। बैठक का शुभारम्भ पू. सरसंघचालक डॉ. मोहनजी भागवत और मा. सरकार्यवाह श्री दत्तात्रेय होसबाले जी ने भारत माता के चित्र पर पुष्पार्चन करके किया। बैठक 13 मार्च को सम्पन्न होगी। pic.twitter.com/gWNk7KwpwZ
This picture was posted by RSS on its official Twitter handle on the occasion of “Akhil Bhartiya Pratinidhi Sabha” held at Karnavati, Gujarat on March 11, 2022.
It is now clear that picture 2 is morphed by embedding Murmu’s image from picture 1 and then flipped horizontally.
To sum it up, the image is a morphed one and Droupadi Murmu did not meet Mohan Bhagwat at the RSS headquarters in Nagpur recently.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/07/draupadi-murmu-with-bhagawat-FB-Post-1024x590.jpg