URL: https://factly.in/this-photo-of-ms-dhoni-touching-the-feet-of-sachin-tendulkar-is-an-edited-one
This photo of MS Dhoni touching the feet of Sachin Tendulkar is an edited one - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-05-12T10:18:44+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it is the picture of Mahendra Singh Dhoni touching Sachin Tendulkar’s feet during the Indian Premier League (IPL) match between Chennai Super Kings and Mumbai Indians. Sharing the picture, the post praises the upbringing and the humility of MS Dhoni. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.  
Claim: Photo of MS Dhoni touching the feet of Sachin Tendulkar.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is an edited one. The original photo shows Mahendra Singh Dhoni standing beside Sachin Tendulkar and having a cheerful laugh. The photo was taken on 08 April 2023 before the Mumbai Indians vs. Chennai Super Kings match at the Wankhede stadium. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found tweeted by the official Twitter handle of Chennai Super Kings. The original photo tweeted by Chennai Super Kings shows MS Dhoni standing beside Sachin Tendulkar and having a cheerful laugh. BCCI also tweeted the photo on 08 April 2023 saying- “2 Legends. 1 Frame”.
2⃣ Legends. 1⃣ Frame 💙💛#TATAIPL | #MIvCSK | @sachin_rt | @msdhoni pic.twitter.com/9pLrQh4hp6
Several news websites have published articles sharing this photo. A few of those articles can be seen here, here and here. The original photo does not show MS Dhoni bowing his head down and touching the feet of Sachin.
Sachin Tendulkar and MS Dhoni shared a moment before the Mumbai Indians vs Chennai Super Kings match on 08 April 2023. Sachin and Dhoni together inspected the Wankhede pitch before the start of the match. Though we could not find the details of the picture of Dhoni bowing down, from all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the photo shared in the post is an edited and altered image.
To sum it up, this photo of MS Dhoni touching the feet of Sachin Tendulkar is an edited one.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/05/Dhoni-touching-Sachins-feet-Claim.jpg