URL: https://factly.in/this-boy-in-the-photo-is-arrested-for-murder-not-for-stealing
The boy in this photo was arrested for murder, not for stealing - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-10-23T11:49:07+00:00
The photo of a boy convicted in a judicial court is being shared on social media claiming him as the 15-year-old boy who was caught while stealing bread and cheese for his mother from a store. In the post, it is claimed that the judge imposed a penalty of $1000 on Store administration for being cruel at the boy. Let’s verify the claims made in the post.
Claim:  A 15-year-old boy arrested for stealing bread and butter in a store.
Fact: The boy in the photo was arrested on the charges of murder, not on the charges of robbery. A 12-year-old Christian Fernandez was arrested on the charges of murdering his half brother David in Jacksonville, during the year 2011. He was in the custody till 2018. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in an article published by the ‘Florida Times-Union’ news website on ‘03 January 2012’. In the article, they mentioned this boy as the 12-year-old Christian Juan Fernandez who was accused in the first-order murder charges on killing his 2-year-old half-brother. It is reported that Christian half-brother David Galarraga died from a fractured skull and bleeding brain at his home during 2011.
On searching for more information using these keywords, a video showing similar visuals was found in an article published by ‘Fox News’ news website on ‘19 October 2011’. In the video, it is mentioned that a 12-year-old Christian Fernandez was charged as an adult for the murder of his brother in Jacksonville, Florida. Christian Fernandez is prosecuted on the charges of killing his 2-year-old half-brother David violently by shoving him to the bookshelf causing severe skull injury and massive internal bleeding. It is reported that Christian Fernandez is the youngest person ever to be charged as an adult with murder in Jacksonville.
According to the article published by ‘News4JAX’ news website, Christian Fernandez was released from jail on ‘15 January 2018’ after being in the custody since 2013. He is said to be released after prosecutors and a circuit judge agreed to temporarily suspend special conditions of his probation.
To sum it up, the boy in the photo was arrested on the charges of murder, not on charges of robbery.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/10/15-year-old-boy-arrested-for-stealing-Claim-1024x443.jpg