URL: https://factly.in/this-image-of-a-package-with-customer-address-as-charminar-hyderabad-is-photoshopped
This image of a package with a funny customer address as ‘Charminar, Hyderabad’ is photoshopped - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-07-14T08:12:24+00:00
An image of a Flipkart delivery package is widely shared on social media. It has the customer address as ‘XXXX(Customer name) 12-24/Z, Pasha bhai ki dukhan kan aake puchlo, Salim Lala kidhar rehte, seedha ghar tak lake chodte. Charminar- 500002 Hyderabad’. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of a Flipkart delivery package with a funny customer address as ‘Charminar Hyderabad’.
Fact: The photo is not original. It is an edited one. In the original photo, the delivery package has the customer address as- ‘XXXX(Customer name) 448 Chaoth mata mandir, mandir ke samne aate hi phone laaga lena mein aa jaunga, Shivpura.. Kota-324010 Rajasthan’. So, the package has the address of ‘Kota, Rajasthan’ not ‘Charminar, Hyderabad’.  Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When we searched on Google with keywords, an article of ‘India Today’ was obtained in the search results. The article had a tweet by a Twitter user with a similar photo of the Flipkart package. When we observed both the photos, all the details on the package (like product code, return address, amount of package, date) are the same except for the ‘customer address’. In the photo posted in the tweet, the address is hilarious too and is as follows – ‘XXXX(Customer name) 448 Chaoth mata mandir, mandir ke samne aate hi phone laaga lena mein aa jaunga, Shivpura. Kota-324010 Rajasthan’. The photo with the same address as ‘Kota, Rajasthan’ can also be seen in other news articles which can be read here, here and here.  So, the package has the customer address as ‘Kota, Rajasthan’ not ‘Charminar, Hyderabad’. Hence the posted photo is an edited one.
The same photo with the customer address as ‘Kota, Rajasthan’ was also posted by ‘Flipkart’ on Twitter.
Taking ‘Ghar ek mandir hai’ to a whole new level! pic.twitter.com/uuDoIYLyId
To sum it up, the image of a package with a funny customer address as ‘Charminar, Hyderabad’ is photoshopped. 
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/07/Flipkart-delivery-address-FB-post.jpg