URL: https://factly.in/this-photo-does-not-show-an-hindu-family-who-converted-to-islam-in-the-us
This photo does not show a Hindu family who converted to Islam in the US - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-06-08T12:37:28+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming that four members of the same Hindu family have recently converted to Islam in the United States. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of a Hindu family who converted to Islam in the United States.
Fact: The photo shared in the post shows an old picture of a German family who converted to Islam at the Al-Tawhid Mosque in Hurghada, Egypt. The photo does not show a Hindu family who converted to Islam  in the US. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.  
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, similar pictures were found in a Facebook post published on 07 November 2015. Sharing these photos, the Facebook user mentioned that a German named Donel Clause had converted to Islam along with his family in Hurghada, Egypt.
When we searched for further sources using these keywords, the same photo was found in an article published by the ‘youm7.com’ website on 06 November 2015. This article reported it as the picture of a German family who converted to Islam at Al-Tawhid Mosque in Hurghada. According to the details reported in the article, Donel Clause along with his wife and two children have converted to Islam at Al-Tawhid Mosque in Hurghada. The photo was reportedly taken after Al-Tawhid Mosque’s Imam had distributed a copy of the Quran to each of the family members. We could not find the past religious background of this family.
Lately, there are no news reports about a Hindu family converting to Islam in the US. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the post shared an old picture of a German family who converted to Islam in Egypt.
To sum it up, this photo does not show a Hindu family who converted to Islam in the US. 

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/06/Hindu-family-who-converted-to-Islam-in-the-US-Claim.jpg