URL: https://factly.in/this-photo-of-indian-army-waving-indian-flag-near-kailash-mountain-is-a-photoshopped-one
This photo of Indian soldiers waving Indian flag near Kailash mountain is a photoshopped one - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-09-15T15:26:12+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media with a claim that Indian soldiers captured the Kailash mountain which was occupied by China in 1962. In the photo, Indian soldiers are seen holding Indian Flag in front of the Kailash mountain. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of Indian soldiers waving the tri colour Indian flag at Kailash Mountain.
Fact: Photo shared in the post is an edited one. Two unrelated photos are merged to portray as if Indian soldiers are waving the flag in front of the Kailash Mountain in China occupied Tibet. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search, a similar photo of the same group of Indian soldiers waving the tricolour Indian flag was found in ‘DefenceXP’ website. But, the background of the soldiers in this photo is not the same as the one in the post. In the original photo, soldiers are not seen in front of the Kailash Mountain. In the website, photo credits the Indian army. On searching for the complete information about this photo, we found the photo of the same group of soldiers waving the Indian flag in ‘India vs Disinformation’ website. In the description of the photo, it is mentioned that despite the bone-chilling cold, Indian Army hoisted the tricolour at LOC on the occasion of 71st Republic Day. So, it is concluded that the soldiers holding the Indian flag at LOC, not near Kailash mountain. The original photo can also be seen here and here.
While searching for the mountain behind the soldiers in the photo, a similar photo of the mountain was found in a Facebook post of a user. In the post, it is described as the picture of Kailash mountain.
To sum it up, two unrelated pictures are merged to portray Indian soldiers waving the flag in front of Kailash mountain in China occupied Tibet.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/09/Soldiers-waving-Indian-flag-at-Kailash-mountain-Claim.jpg