URL: https://factly.in/this-photo-doesnt-show-jawaharlal-nehru-posing-with-indira-gandhis-husband-and-father-in-law
This photo doesn’t show Jawaharlal Nehru posing with Indira Gandhi’s husband and father-in-law - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-06-03T13:58:46+00:00
An image is being shared on social media claiming it as a very rare picture of Jawaharlal Nehru posing with Indira Gandhi’s husband Feroze Khan and her father-in-law Yunas Khan. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of Jawaharlal Nehru posing with Indira Gandhi’s husband Feroze Khan and her father-in-law Yunus Khan.
Fact: This photo shows Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi posing with Russian artist Nicholas Roerich and Indian freedom fighter Mohammad Yunus Khan. Mohammad Yunus Khan is not the father-in-law of Indira Gandhi. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in the ‘Alamy’ image sharing website. The man who is standing left to Indira Gandhi was mentioned as a Russian artist Nicholas Roerich. More details regarding Nicholas Roerich can be found here.
Also, the person who is standing beside Nicholas Roerich is Indian freedom fighter Mohammad Yunus Khan. Wikipedia has shared the same photo with a similar description. Mohammad Yunus Khan is not the father-in-law of Indira Gandhi. More details about Yunus Khan can be seen here.
‘The Week’ news website has shared the photo of Indira Gandhi’s husband Feroze Gandhi in an article published on 12 September 2018. Also, they mentioned Indira Gandhi’s father-in-law’s name as Faredoon Jehangir Ghandy. A different picture of Jawaharlal Nehru posing with Indira Gandhi, Nicholas Roerich, and Mohammad Yunus Khan can be seen here. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the photo shared in the post shows Jawaharlal Nehru posing with Russian artist Nicholas Roerich and the Indian freedom fighter Mohammad Yunus Khan.
To sum it up, this photo doesn’t show Jawaharlal Nehru posing with Indira Gandhi’s husband and her father-in-law.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/06/Nehru-posing-with-Indira-Gandhis-husband-and-her-father-in-law-Claim.jpg