URL: https://factly.in/this-photo-of-an-airplane-on-a-solar-eclipse-day-is-a-digital-artwork-not-a-real-picture
This photo of an airplane on a solar eclipse day is digital artwork, not a real picture - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-05-26T11:41:20+00:00
An image is being shared on social media claiming it is an amazing solar eclipse picture taken from space. Earlier, a few social media users have shared this image claiming it is a picture taken by a British pilot. Let’s verify the claims made in these posts.
Claim: Photo of an airplane on a solar eclipse day taken from space.
Fact: The image shared in the post is an edited one. This photo was digitally created by combining different images. A version of this image was created by adding the elements furnished by NASA. This photo does not show the real picture of a solar eclipse. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo without the airplane was found published on the ‘Shutterstock’ website by an art page named ‘muratart’. The description of the image states, “Solar eclipse “Elements of this image furnished by NASA”. ‘muratart’ published multiple similar images visualising different positions of a solar eclipse.
On further search, the photo of airplane and solar eclipse was also found in the ‘muratart’ Shutterstock profile. The description if the photo reads ‘Solar Eclipse and passenger airplane in the clouds”Elements of this image furnished by NASA “.’
The solar eclipse portion of the image was also used to create other images. They can be seen here and here. ‘muratart’ created another version of this image by replacing an asteroid structure in place of the solar eclipse. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the image shared in the post is digital artwork.
To sum it up, this photo of an airplane on a solar eclipse day is a digital artwork, not a real picture.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/05/Solar-Eclipse-picture-claim.jpg