URL: https://factly.in/this-photo-shows-the-nidadavole-railway-station-ap-tracks-filled-with-rainwater
This photo shows the Nidadavole Railway Station (AP) tracks filled with rainwater. - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-10-14T09:04:02+00:00
Hyderabad received a huge amount of rainfall on 13 October 2020 (with some areas receiving more than 20 cm rainfall).  A lot of videos and photos are being shared on the internet claiming those to be of Hyderabad. While some of them show the actual visuals, the others are just picked up from other places and shared as recent and related to Hyderabad. A photo of a railway track filled with water is being shared widely on social media with a claim that it shows the Kacheguda Railway Station in Hyderabad. Also, some users are sharing the same photo as Jangoan Railway Station (Telangana) on WhatsApp. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo shows the Kacheguda Railway Station (Hyderabad) tracks filled with rainwater.Fact: The photo shows the Nidadavole Railway Station in Andhra Pradesh. The photo is neither related to Kacheguda nor Jangoan, which are in Telangana. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When the photo in the post was run through Google Reverse Image Search, there were no proper search results. But it was found that some people have posted the same photo and mentioned that it is related to the Nidadavole Railway Station in Andhra Pradesh. So, when searched with these keywords, a video of Nidadavole Railway Station posted by ‘BBC News Telugu’ on 13 October 2020 was found. By comparing the visuals in the video and the photo, it can be concluded that the photo shows the Nidadavole Railway Station in Andhra Pradesh. An article by the ‘Eenadu’ on rainwater at the Nidadavole Railway Station can be read here.
A few photos and videos related to the recent rains in Hyderabad can be seen here.
To sum it up, a photo of Nidadavole Railway Station tracks filled with rainwater falsely shared as a photo of Railway Stations in Telangana.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/10/Kachiguda-Railway-Station-FB-Post-1024x418.jpg