URL: https://factly.in/this-image-of-the-giza-pyramid-lit-with-the-palestine-flag-is-a-morphed-one
This image of the Giza Pyramid lit with the Palestine flag is a morphed one - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-05-25T12:23:40+00:00
In view of the recent escalation of tensions between Israel and Palestine which ended temporarily with a ceasefire, a social media post accompanying an image of the Egypt Pyramid is being widely shared with a claim that the Pyramids are lit up with colours of the Palestinian flag as an act of solidarity. This is in the context of Egypt mediating for the ceasefire. The image in the post shows Egypt’s Pyramid lit up with the Palestine flag. Through this article, let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Egypt’s Pyramids are lit up with colours of Palestine flag.
Fact: The Giza Pyramids were not lit up with Palestinian flag colours. There are no such recent reports about Giza Pyramids being lit up with the Palestinian flag colours.  This image is actually a digitally edited version of an image of Giza Pyramid which is available on Wikimedia and Egyptian Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities website. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Firstly, there are no media reports or any other information stating that Egyptian Pyramids were lighted with the Palestine flag.
Further reverse image search of the photo in the post led us to the same image of Egyptian Pyramids, but without the Palestine flag on Wikimedia commons that has a close resemblance to the image in the post. By juxtaposing this image with one in the post, we can spot many striking similarities between these two images.
According to Wikimedia, this image is clicked on 18 August 2014 and the image is credited to Ayah Ahmed. Even the EXIF info related to this image says that the image was clicked on 18 August 2014, which is almost 7 years ago and has nothing to do with current tensions prevailing between Israel and Palestine.
Further, the same image is also featured on Egyptian Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities official website. With this, we can infer that either of these sources of this particular image of the Giza Pyramids could be the source image used to digitally edit so as to look like it is lit up with colours of the Palestinian flag.
Earlier, there have been instances of the Giza Pyramid being lit up showcasing a particular message. However, there are no recent reports of such an occurrence in the wake of Israel- Palestine tensions.
To sum it up, this image of the Giza Pyramid lit with the Palestine flag is a morphed one.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/05/Pyramid-Palestine-Flag-FB-Post.jpg