URL: https://factly.in/this-photo-does-not-show-wrestlers-ending-their-protest-against-wfi-president-brij-bhushan-singh-at-jantar-mantar
This photo does not show wrestlers ending their protest against WFI President Brij Bhushan Singh at Jantar Mantar - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-05-10T12:58:52+00:00
A photo of wrestlers Bajrang Punia and Sangita Phogat moving out of a camp holding a bag and a blanket in their hands is being shared on social media claiming that the wrestlers have ended their protests at Jantar Mantar against the Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) President and BJP MP Brij Bhushan Singh, who has been accused of sexual harassment. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo showing wrestlers packing their bags and moving out of the protest site after ending their protests against WFI President Brij Bhushan Singh.
Fact: Bajrang Punia, Sangita Phogat, Vinesh Phogat, Sakshi Malik and other wrestlers are still continuing their protests against WFI President Brij Bhushan Singh, who has been accused of sexual harassment, at Jantar Mantar in Delhi. The picture shared in the post was taken on 28 April 2023 when Bajrang Punia, Sangita Phogat and other wrestlers were putting their things away as part of their daily morning routine after the night stay at the protest site. The photo does not show wrestlers packing their bags and completely moving out of the protest site. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the same photo was found in an article published by the ‘Hindustan Times’ news website on 29 April 2023. The description of the photo states, “Wrestlers Bajrang Punia and Sangita Phogat following a night stay at Jantar Mantar amid their protest, in New Delhi.” Several other news websites have also published the same photo with the same description.
When we searched the internet with relevant keywords, we found that Bajrang Punia, Sangita Phogat, Vinesh Phogat, Sakshee Malik and other wrestlers are still continuing their protests (as of 10 May 2023) demanding the resignation of WFI President Brij Bhushan Singh at Jantar Mantar in Delhi. The latest news reports related to the wrestlers’ protests in Delhi can be seen here, here and here.
Speaking about the photo to ‘Boom Live’, Satyavrat Kadian, husband of Sakshee Malik, said, “We fold our blankets, pack them, and put them in our vehicles every morning, that is what the photo is showing. Our protest is still on”. Another photo was also being shared with a similar claim on social media. Mandeep Krantikari, a national-level wrestler and one of the members managing the protest, spoke to ‘Boom Live’ about the photo and said that the image could have been clicked during the time they clean the premises of the protest site every day.
To sum it up, a photo of wrestlers putting away their things after the night stay at the protest site is shared with a claim that wrestlers have ended their protests at Jantar Mantar.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/05/Wrestelers-protest-ended-at-Jantar-Mantar-in-Delhi-Claim.jpg