URL: https://factly.in/this-image-doesnt-show-tej-pratap-yadav-receiving-a-doctorate
This image doesn’t show Tej Pratap Yadav receiving a doctorate - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-10-30T13:44:21+00:00
A post with an image of Tej Pratap Yadav (son of Lalu Prasad Yadav) in a convocation ceremony is being widely shared on social media with the claim that Tej Pratap who did not even pass tenth standard was awarded a doctorate from Takshashila University, Bihar. Through this article let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Image of Tej Pratap Yadav, son of Lalu Prasad Yadav receiving a doctorate from Takshashila University.
Fact: The image actually shows Tej Pratap Yadav awarding degrees to the students of IGIMS back in 2017 when he was the Health Minister of Bihar. Tej Pratap shared the same image on his Twitter account. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Reverse image search of the photo in the post led us to a 2017 tweet by Tej Pratap Yadav which shared the same image as in the post. The description of the images reads “Today attended the third convocation ceremony of IGIMS and gave all the passed students the DG Certificate and Gold Medal”.
Taking a cue from the tweet, Google search with relevant keywords led us to a news article which reported the event. According to the article, Tej Pratap Yadav, then Health Minister of Bihar awarded the degrees to the medical students in IGIMS (Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences). Further through YouTube search, we found the video of the event. With all this, we can confirm that the image in the post shows Tej Pratap Yadav just awarding certificates to the students in IGIMS. He is not receiving a doctorate. 
When the same claim went viral couple of years back, few fact-checkers have debunked it, these fact-checking stories can be read here and here.
In the light of the ongoing Bihar elections, posts like these are being shared on social media platforms with misleading claims.
To sum it up,  the images of Tej Pratap Yadav awarding degrees to the students are falsely shared as him receiving doctorate from Takshashila University.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/10/Tej-Pratap-Yadav-Doctorate-FB-Post.jpg