URL: https://factly.in/this-photo-of-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-accused-swapna-suresh-posing-with-pinarayi-vijayans-family-is-a-morphed-one
This photo of Kerala Gold Smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh posing with Pinarayi Vijayan’s family is a morphed one - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-06-14T13:51:36+00:00
An image is being shared on social media claiming it is a picture of Kerala Gold Smuggling Case prime accused Swapna Suresh posing with Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan and his family. This post claims that the photo was taken during Pinarayi Vijayan’s daughter’s wedding ceremony. In the wake of Swapna Suresh’s recent allegations on Pinarayi Vijayan and his family’s involvement in the 2020 Kerala Gold Smuggling case, this photo is going viral on social media. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of Swapna Suresh posing with the family of Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is a morphed one. This image was created by morphing Kerala politician E. P. Jayarajan’s wife’s face with that of Swapna Suresh. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in an article published by the ‘News 18’ on 15 June 2020. This article states that the image was taken during Pinarayi Vijayan’s daughter Veena’s wedding ceremony. But in the original group photo, Swapna Suresh was not present along with the Pinarayi Vijayan’s family.
When we searched for further details, we found that the original photo shows Kerala former MLA E. P. Jayarajan and his wife posing with Pinarayi Vijayan’s family. The image shared in the post was created by morphing Jayarajan’s wife PK Indira’s face with that of Swapna Suresh.
Earlier, when a similar edited photo was shared on social media as the picture of Pinarayi Vijayan’s name tattoo on Swapna Suresh’s hand, FACTLY published a fact-check article debunking that claim.
To sum it up, a morphed photo shared as the picture of Swapna Suresh posing with Pinarayi Vijayan’s family.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/06/Swapna-suresh-posing-at-pinarayi-Vijayans-daughters-wedding-Claim.jpg