URL: https://factly.in/this-picture-of-a-half-burnt-woman-body-is-related-to-a-murder-in-madhya-pradesh
This picture of a half-burnt body of a Woman is related to a murder in Madhya Pradesh. - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-10-05T12:55:44+00:00
A picture of a half-burnt body of a woman is being shared widely on social media with a claim that she was raped and burnt alive by Rizwan Ansari in Rajasthan. The same photo is also being shared in the context of Hathras (archived) and Balrampur (archived) incidents in Uttar Pradesh. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: The photo shows the half-burnt body of a woman who was raped and burnt alive in Rajasthan.Fact: The posted photo is related to a murder in Dhar district (Madhya Pradesh). The woman was allegedly killed by Govind and Sohan over a dispute. The FIR on the incident does not mention rape. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On running the image through Google Reverse Image Search, similar photos were found to be tweeted by multiple users with the claim that the body of a woman was found burnt at Gandhwani in Dhar district (Madhya Pradesh). So, when we searched with relevant keywords, a news video published by ‘Asianet News – Hindi’ with similar visuals was found in the search results. In the description, it can be read that the incident took place in Gandhwani in Dhar district (Madhya Pradesh). The woman was allegedly killed by Govind and Sohan over a dispute. Multiple news articles regarding the incident can be read here, here and here.
There was no mention of rape in any news article. Also, the FIR filed on the incident does not mention rape. Only sections 302, 201 and 34 of IPC were mentioned. The FIR can be read here.
We were not able to find the details about the Rajasthan incident mentioned in the post. Usually, any such incident is widely reported by news agencies. But no such news reports were found about any similar recent incident.
To sum it up, the picture of a half-burnt body of a woman is related to a murder in Madhya Pradesh. It is neither related to Uttar Pradesh nor Rajasthan.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/10/Woman-raped-and-burnt-in-Rajasthan-FB-Post.jpg