URL: https://factly.in/this-photo-featuring-congress-party-leaders-with-a-banner-that-reads-chor-group-meeting-is-digitally-manipulated
This photo featuring Congress party leaders with a banner that reads 'Chor Group Meeting' is digitally manipulated - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-07-26T10:04:30+00:00
A photo is doing rounds on social media in which leaders of the congress party can be seen seated in front of a banner that reads ‘…Chor Group Meeting.’ The text on this viral photo mentions that ‘Core’ was misspelled as ‘Chor’, and none of the leaders realized the mistake. Let’s fact-check this claim through this article.
Claim: Congress party leaders sat before a banner that reads ‘…Chor Group Meeting.’
Fact: This is a digitally edited image. The original photo was taken during a Congress working committee meeting in 2019 which does not contain the text ‘…Chor Group Meeting’. Hence the claim made in the post is False.
We performed a reverse image search using Google to learn more details about this viral photo. This search led us to a few news reports (here, here, and here) from 2019, which contained an image identical to the viral photo.  This photo was taken during a Congress Working Committee meeting in Delhi on May 2019. This did not have the text ‘Chor Group Meeting.’ Instead, it simply contains the name of the congress party both in Hindi and English.
This detail gives away that the viral photo has been digitally manipulated. You can see the difference between both the photos in the following collage.
Additionally, we also found photos and videos of the same meeting shot from different angles in which you can clearly see that the text ‘Chor Group Meeting’ is not present on the banner. This confirms that the photo has been digitally manipulated.
Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting underway at All India Congress Committee (AICC) headquarters in Delhi pic.twitter.com/ct5CFCNUym
To sum up, this photo featuring Congress party leaders with a banner reading ‘Chor Group Meeting’ is digitally manipulated.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/07/Banner-of-Indian-National-Congress-Core-Group-Meeting-Claim--883x1024.jpg