URL: https://factly.in/this-photograph-of-pm-narendra-modi-clicking-pictures-with-the-lens-cap-on-is-morphed
This photograph of PM Narendra Modi clicking pictures with the lens cap on is morphed. - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-09-18T10:44:42+00:00
A post is being shared on social media with a photograph of PM Narendra Modi taking photos without removing the lens cap. Let’s fact-check this image through this article.
Claim: PM Narendra Modi captured photos without removing the lens cap.Fact: The image in the post was captured on 17 September 2022; on his 72nd birthday, PM Narendra Modi released cheetahs brought from Namibia into a special enclosure at Kuno National Park. In the original image, the lens cap is off the camera used by PM Modi. The image being shared is flipped & digitally morphed. Hence the claim made in the post is False.
After searching the internet with relevant keywords, we were led to multiple news media reports which contained the image from the viral post. They can be read here & here.
The Press Information Bureau (PIB) of the government also released the same picture.
View Post
On his 72nd birthday, PM Narendra Modi visited Madhya Pradesh’s Kuno National Park to release the cheetahs brought from Namibia. This photograph was clicked during that event.  In the original image, PM Modi can be seen using a Nikon camera and the lens is clearly uncapped. The viral image is horizontally flipped & edited. Another giveaway is that the lens cover is of ‘Canon’ brand while the camera is of ‘Nikon’.
Trinamool Congress’s Rajya Sabha MP Jawhar Sircar has also tweeted this picture and later deleted it as BJP countered it as an edited image. The archived version of his tweet can be seen here.
TMC Rajya Sabha MP is sharing an edited image of Nikon camera with canon cover.Such a bad attempt to spread fake propaganda. @MamataOfficial ..hire someone better who can atleast have common sense. https://t.co/rPgNb3mmM0
With this evidence, we can conclude that the image from the viral post is morphed/digitally altered.
To sum up, this photograph of PM Narendra Modi using a camera with the lens cap on is morphed.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/09/Photographer-Modi-01-728x1024.jpg