URL: https://factly.in/this-image-of-various-opinion-polls-predicting-congress-victory-in-the-upcoming-karnataka-assembly-elections-is-not-published-by-ndtv
This image of various opinion polls predicting Congress victory in the upcoming Karnataka Assembly Elections is not published by NDTV - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-05-04T10:13:29+00:00
A screenshot with a list of opinion poll predictions purportedly published by ‘NDTV’ is being shared widely claiming that major surveys have unanimously predicted a humongous victory to Congress in the upcoming Karnataka Elections 2023. The post claims that even internal surveys conducted by the RSS and the State Intelligence Bureau have predicted Congress securing majority seats over BJP in the 2023 Karnataka Assembly Elections. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: A screenshot with a list of opinion poll predictions is published by ‘NDTV’, and all these predict Congress winning majority seats in the 2023 Karnataka Assembly Elections.
Fact: This purported screenshot is fake and not published by NDTV. NDTV through a tweet clarified that the viral screenshot is fake and informed that NDTV’s ‘Poll of Exit Polls’ will be announced after the completion of Elections on 10 May 2023. While most of the opinion polls mentioned in the screenshot have predicted Congress securing more than 100 seats in the 2023 Karnataka Assembly Elections, there is no evidence to confirm that RSS and State Intelligence Bureau conducted internal surveys and predicted Congress victory in Karnataka. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.
When we searched to check whether NDTV published any such list in the wake of upcoming Karnataka Assembly Elections scheduled to be held on 10 May 2023, we could not find any on NDTV’s official Twitter and other social media handles. NDTV in the latest article reported that the NDTV Lokniti-CSDS Survey found 40 percent of the people in state preferring Siddaramaiah to be the next Chief Minister of Karnataka and 22 percent of people wish to see Basavaraj Bommai back in the Chief Minister’s position.  
After the screenshot went viral on social media, NDTV published a tweet stating-“False posts on NDTV Poll of Poll tracker for Karnataka, being widely circulated, are misleading.” NDTV in the tweet clarified that real ‘Poll of Exit Polls’ will be announced on 10 May 2023 evening after the completion of elections in Karnataka.
Fake Tweet Alert | False posts on NDTV Poll of Poll tracker for Karnataka, being widely circulated, are misleading. Watch this space for the real #PollOfExitPolls on May 10th evening pic.twitter.com/0TvfP7SuFW
While opinion polls published by ‘ABP-CVoter’, ‘Eedina’, ‘TV9 Kannada’, ‘C-Daily Tracker’ and ‘Lok Pol’ have projected Congress securing more than 100 seats and forming government in Karnataka, there is no evidence to confirm that RSS and State Intelligence Bureau had conducted internal surveys and they too predicted a Congress victory in the Karnataka Elections 2023.
To sum it up, this screenshot with a list of opinion poll predictions for the upcoming Karnataka Elections 2023 is not published by NDTV.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/05/NDTV-opinion-poll-predicting-Congress-victory-in-Karnataka-Claim.jpg