URL: https://factly.in/this-photo-of-a-man-holding-poster-regarding-the-inefficiency-of-mumbai-police-is-photoshopped
This photo of a man holding poster regarding the inefficiency of Mumbai Police is photoshopped. - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-08-13T08:42:05+00:00
An image of a man holding a poster regarding the inefficiency of Mumbai Police is being shared widely on social media. The poster reads – ‘सुशांत सिंह हत्या की जाँच वहीं मुंबई पुलिस कर रही है जो 18 साल में ये पता नहीं लगा पाई की उस रात सलमान की गाड़ी कौन चला रहा था II’ (Translation – Sushant Singh’s case is being investigated by the same Mumbai Police who could not find the person who drove Salman’s vehicle that night in 18 years). Let’s fact-check the authenticity of the posted image.
Claim: Photo of a man holding the poster questioning the efficiency of Mumbai Police in investigating Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.
Fact: The poster in the photo has been edited. A similar photo with different text (related to CAA and NRC) on the poster is being circulated on the internet at least since December 2019 i.e. much before the death of Sushant Singh Rajput in June 2020. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When the photo was run through Google Reverse Image Search, many similar images were found in the search results. A similar photo was found being circulated on the internet at least since December 2019 i.e. much before the death of Sushant Singh Rajput in June 2020. The poster in the photo has different text, related to CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act) and NRC (National Register of Citizens). The posts from December 2019 can be found here, here, and here. While the original source of the photo was not found, it can be concluded that it is definitely not related to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death as the photo is an old one and all the previous versions are related CAA and NRC.
To sum it up, this photo of a man holding poster regarding the inefficiency of Mumbai Police is photoshopped.
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/08/Poster-on-Mumbai-Police-FB-Post.jpg