URL: https://factly.in/this-photo-does-not-show-the-prasad-served-at-vaishno-devi-temple-it-is-from-a-bhandara-in-haryana
This photo does not show the Prasad served at Vaishno Devi temple; it is from a ‘Bhandara’ in Haryana - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-06-10T06:31:13+00:00
A photo through a post is being widely shared on social media claiming that it shows the Prasad served at Vaishno Devi temple. Let us fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo showing the Prasad served at Vaishno Devi temple.
Fact: The photo is part of ‘Kabir Parkat Diwas Bhandara’ by Sant Rampal on 09 June 2017 in Rohtak, Haryana not from the Vaishno Devi temple in Jammu and Kashmir. It was a free meal served to people who were invited to the event. Kabir Prakat Diwas was celebrated ‘to commemorate the manifestation of God Kabir in 1398 in Kashi (Varanasi), India’. The occasion is celebrated along with a Bhandara (meal), the first such Bhandara was organised in 2017 in Rohtak, Haryana. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When reverse image search is done on the photo, similar photos were found on Facebook posted in June 2017. According to the Facebook post, the laddus prepared were for an event that they were celebrating on 09 June 2017. The photos were from Rohtak in Haryana, not from Vaishno Devi temple is in Jammu and Kashmir.
There were Facebook posts (here and here) showing similar pictures of laddus, celebrating Sant Kabir. When searched online with relevant keywords, couple of video stories (here and here) were found about the event held in Rohtak, Haryana during that time. The visuals were part of ‘Kabir Parkat Diwas Bhandara’ by Sant Rampal on 09 June 2017. It was a free meal served to people who were invited to the event.
According to Satlok Ashram (organisation involved in the event), Kabir Prakat Diwas was celebrated ‘to commemorate the manifestation of God Kabir in 1398 in Kashi (Varanasi), India’. The occasion is celebrated along with a Bhandara (meal), the first such Bhandara was organised in 2017 in Rohtak, Haryana.
To sum it up, this photo does not show the Prasad served at Vaishno Devi temple; it is from a ‘Bhandara’ in Haryana.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/06/Vaishno-Devi-Prasadam-Photo_post.jpg