URL: https://factly.in/this-photo-of-children-dressed-in-hindu-attire-and-dining-on-banana-leaves-was-not-taken-in-germany
This photo of children dressed in Hindu attire and dining on banana leaves was not taken in Germany - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-12-29T13:33:24+00:00
A post sharing a photo of a few children in Hindu attire eating food on banana leaves is being shared on social media, claiming that Hindu culture is being promoted in Germany, and that the picture is from there. Let’s fact-check this post through this article.
Claim: Photo of a few children in Hindu attire eating food on banana leaves in Germany.
Fact: The children in the photo are students of Bhaktivedanta Gurukul in Mayapur, West Bengal. This photo has nothing to do with Germany. So, what is being claimed in the post is FALSE.
A reverse image search of the photo in the post led to a Facebook post that shared the same photo in October 2020. According to the description given in this post, this photo is related to Bhaktivedanta Gurukul in Mayapur, West Bengal.
Based on the Facebook post, we searched the internet about the Gurukul, which led to its official website and Facebook page. Looking carefully at the photos and videos on this Facebook page, one can notice that the children of the Bhakti Vedanta Gurukul are wearing the same clothes as the children in the viral post.
We also performed a keyword search on YouTube and found a tour video of Bhaktivedanta Academy. In this video, it can be seen that the walls in the kitchen are the same as the walls in the viral photo.
BOOM fact-checking agency contacted ISKCON Mayapur Media Communications Head Subroto Das for clarification regarding the photo. He confirmed that the photos are of Bhaktivedanta Gurukul and the students in the photo from the Gurukul. But, they did not mention when those images were taken.
To sum up, this photo of Hindu children eating food on banana leaves was not taken in Germany.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/12/Germany-Hindu-dharma-Photo-01-843x1024.jpeg