URL: https://factly.in/this-image-of-a-woman-wearing-a-placard-with-the-message-about-evm-ban-is-photoshopped
This image of a woman wearing a placard with the message about EVM ban is photoshopped - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-07-30T13:07:21+00:00
An image of a woman with a placard is being widely shared on social media. The message on the placard is in Hindi and its English translation is as follows– ‘The GOVERNMENT says Triple Talaq is banned in 21 countries, but it does not say that EVM is banned in the whole world’. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Image of a woman wearing a placard with the message– ‘The GOVERNMENT says ‘Triple Talaq’ is banned in 21 countries, but it does not say that EVM is banned in the whole world’.
Fact: The image in the post is not original but edited one. In the original image, the message seen on the placard is– ‘The GOVERNMENT says ‘Triple Talaq’ is banned in 21 countries, but it does not say that RESERVATION is banned in the whole world’. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When we subjected the image to reverse image search technique, many posts and tweets with a similar image were obtained. But the message seen on the placard worn by the woman is different from the message seen on the posted image. The message on the placard in these images is as follows– ‘The GOVERNMENT says ‘Triple Talaq’ is banned in 21 countries, but it does not say that RESERVATION is banned in the whole world’. And the images have the words ‘GOVERNMENT’ (सरकार) and ‘RESERVATION’ (आरक्षण) in the same colour (orange) and are of same ‘font’ size. But in the posted image, the words ‘GOVERNMENT’ (सरकार) and ‘EVM’ are of different colour and of varying font suggesting the image to be edited.
When we checked if Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) are banned in the entire world, it was found that many countries across the world still use the EVMs either nationwide or in some parts of their country. Further information about it can be read here and here.  
To sum it up, this image of a woman wearing a placard with the message about the ban of EVMs across the world is photoshopped.
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/07/EVM-ban-in-world-FB-post-1024x807.jpg