URL: https://factly.in/this-photo-of-shah-rukh-khan-washing-his-feet-in-a-wash-basin-is-a-bts-still-of-the-movie-jab-harry-met-sejal
This photo of Shah Rukh Khan washing his feet in a wash basin is a BTS still of the movie Jab Harry Met Sejal - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-08-11T09:10:56+00:00
A social media post shares a photograph of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan in which he can be seen cleaning his feet; one can see his foot inside a wash basin.  The description of the photo reads, ‘No, this is no uneducated bigoted rustic M from a slum of Bihar or UP or Bangladesh. This is one of the richest stars of the globe, who can buy entire Bandra, Mumbai.’ Let’s check the truthfulness of this post through this article.
Claim: Photo which shows Shah Rukh Khan (SRK) washing his right foot in a wash basin.
Fact: This is a Behind The Scenes (BTS) still of a scene from the 2017 film ‘Jab Harry Met Sejal.’ This scene appears right towards the climax of the film. Hence, the claim made in the post is Misleading.
We ran the viral photo through the Google reverse image search to learn more about it. This search led us to a tweet from 2021 that contained this photo. According to the tweet, which reads ‘…Harry going back to convey his love to Sejal…’ the viral photo is from a movie. A quick Google search with relevant keywords revealed that the movie’s name is Jab Harry Met Sejal, which was released in 2017.
.@iamsrk #ShahRukhKhan. #TB when you were spotted shooting for this scene of the movie JHMS at the Airport / Mumbai.~Behind the scene :~The scene : Harry going back to convey his love to Sejal. ( 17 Feb 2017 ) #SRK♡ pic.twitter.com/F3cUaGenGH
This film is streaming on Netflix, and the still, which is seen in the viral post, appears before the climax of the film. But, the photo in the viral post looked like it was shot from a different angle compared to the one in the scene; we felt this could be a behind-the-scenes photo from the film set and searched the internet to see if such a photo was available.
This led us to a YouTube video uploaded on the official channel of Red Chillies Entertainment. This is a behind the scenes footage of the film Jab Harry Met Sejal; the viral still appears at the 1:15 mark. This evidence proves that the viral post misquotes a BTS still from this movie as an actual photo.
To sum it up, this photo of Shah Rukh Khan washing his feet in a wash basin is a BTS still of the movie Jab Harry Met Sejal.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/08/SRK-washing-his-feet-in-a-wash-basin-Claim.jpg