URL: https://factly.in/this-photo-of-a-massive-crowd-in-islamabad-was-taken-before-imran-khans-removal-as-prime-minister-of-pakistan
This photo of a massive crowd in Islamabad was taken before Imran Khan’s removal as Prime Minister of Pakistan. - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-04-16T12:19:39+00:00
A photo through a post is being widely shared on social media claiming that the picture shows a recent event of a massive crowd gathered in Peshawar in support of Imran Khan. Let us fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of massive crowd in Peshawar, in support of Imran Khan after his removal as PM.Fact: This photo was taken before Imran Khan’s removal as Pakistan PM. The photo is from a public rally addressed by Imran Khan in Islamabad on 27 March 2022. However, Imran Khan was ousted as the Pakistan’s Prime Minister through a vote of no-confidence in the wee hours of 10 April 2020. Hence, the claim made in the post is MILEADING.
When reverse image search is done on the photo, the same photo was found in a Facebook post published on 27 March 2022. Whereas Imran Khan was ousted as Pakistan’s Prime Minister through a vote of no-confidence in the wee hours of 10 April 2020. Hence, the photo is old, which was taken before Imran Khan’s removal as Prime Minister.
When we searched in google with relevant keywords, an article was found with the same viral photo. The photo is from a public rally addressed by then Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on 27 March 2022, in Islamabad. That rally was organised as a show of strength after Imran Khan was facing a no-confidence motion in the Parliament.
On 03 April 2022, this motion was blocked, and the National Assembly dissolved. However, the Supreme Court of Pakistan restored the National Assembly on 07 April 2020. And Imran Khan was removed in the wee hours on 10 April 2022 after the opposition voted in favour of the motion.
At Parade Ground Islamabad. Prime Minister @ImranKhanPTI addressed massive and historic Jalsa today. It’s a war for Pakistan’s sovereignty and we will fight it, PM @ImranKhanPTI!#IamImranKhan #ThankYouPakistan pic.twitter.com/O88qUyAKm1
To sum it up, this photo of a massive crowd was taken before Imran Khan’s removal as Prime Minister of Pakistan.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/04/Peshwar-Massive-Crowd-Imran-Khan-Recent-Photo_post.jpg