URL: https://factly.in/three-out-of-the-four-images-in-the-post-are-related-to-a-luxury-hotel-the-lalit-grand-palace-srinagar
Three out of the four images in the post are related to a luxury hotel ‘The Lalit Grand Palace Srinagar’ - FACTLY

Publication Date:2019-11-12T14:27:54+00:00
A post with four images of bungalows is being shared on Facebook with the claim that they are the residences of Jammu & Kashmir leaders – Gulam Nabi Azad, Omar Abdullah, Farooq Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti. Also, a reference to that post was given to Ajit Doval.  Let’s check the authenticity of those images
Claim: Images of bungalows of Jammu & Kashmir leaders – Gulam Nabi Azad, Omar Abdullah, Farooq Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti.
Fact: Three out of those four images in the post are related to a luxury hotel ‘The Lalit Grand Palace Srinagar’. So, the claim is FALSE.
Image 1:
When the image is subjected to the Google Reverse Image Search technique, search results were obtained about a luxury hotel ‘The Lalit Grand Palace Srinagar’. The image with a similar building/view can be seen in this Google photo of the hotel. 
Image 2:  
When the image is subjected to the Google Reverse Image Search technique, search results were obtained about a luxury hotel ‘The Lalit Grand Palace Srinagar’. The image with similar a building can be seen in this Google photo of ‘The Lalit Grand Palace Srinagar’. 
Image 3: 
When the image is subjected to the Google Reverse Image Search technique, the same image was found in the article of ‘Kashmir Life’ published in November 2014. The description of the image had the text ‘Omar in his Gupkar house’. An article of ‘India Tv’ also quoted it as the residency of Omar Abdullah at Gupkar road.   
Image 4:
When the image is subjected to the Google Reverse Image Search technique, the same image was found as that of ‘The Lalit Grand Palace Srinagar’ on a travel website ‘TripAdvisor’ and it can be seen here. 
Also, in the post, a reference was given to Ajit Doval. When searched, a similar post was shared by a Facebook page ‘Ajit Doval’ was found. Earlier, when FACTLY contacted the Prime Minister Office, we were told that National Security Advisor Ajit Doval doesn’t have any social media accounts. So, that post was not shared by Ajit Doval. 
To conclude, three out of the four images in the post are that of a luxury hotel ‘The Lalit Grand Palace Srinagar’. 
Did you watch our new Episode of the DECODE series?

Pingback: Three out of the four images in the post are related to a luxury hotel ‘The Lalit Grand Palace Srinagar’ - Fact Checking Tools | Factbase.us

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2019/11/Hotel-images-FB-post.jpg