URL: https://factly.in/turkey-earthquake-picture-shared-as-that-of-a-collapsed-building-following-the-earthquake-in-jammu-and-kashmir
Turkey earthquake picture shared as that of a collapsed building following the earthquake in Jammu and Kashmir - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-03-23T09:24:19+00:00
A video is being shared on social media claiming it as the visuals of a collapsed building in the earthquake-hit Karnah tehsil in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kupwara district. The post claims that three people lost their lives because of the earthquake in the Kupwara district. This video is widely shared on social media after strong tremors jolted Jammu and Kashmir following an earthquake of magnitude 6.6 that struck Afghanistan’s Hindu Kush region on 21 March 2023. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Video showing a collapsed building following an earthquake in Karnah tehsil in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kupwara district.
Fact: The video shows a damaged building in Turkey’s Kahramanmaras city after a massive earthquake hit the region on 06 February 2023. Deputy Commissioner Kupwara tweeted a clarification stating that the social media rumours about three deaths because of an earthquake are fake and baseless. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.
On reverse image search of the screenshots of the video, a photo showing the same collapsed building was found in an article published by the ‘NBC’ news website on 06 February 2023. The article shared multiple images reporting them as devastating pictures from Turkey and Syria after powerful earthquakes hit the regions on 06 February 2023. The description of the photo states, “A damaged building leans dangerously in Kahramanmaras, Turkey.” The news website credited the picture to Anadolu Agency’s journalist Firat Ozdemir. 
When we searched for further sources, we found the same photo in a tweet published by the ‘Anadolu Agency’ on 06 February 2023. The tweet states, “After the 7.4 magnitude earthquake that occurred at 4.17 am in the Pazarcık district of Kahramanmaraş, 6 aftershocks of more than 6 magnitudes were experienced.”
Kahramanmaraş’ın Pazarcık ilçesinde saat 4.17’de meydana gelen 7,4 büyüklüğündeki depremin ardından 6 büyüklüğünün üzerinde 6 artçı deprem yaşandı https://t.co/AwdT7Cpc6y pic.twitter.com/bDw51OFoB5
Tweeting the same picture, Deputy Commissioner Kupwara responded to social media rumours on three deaths in Karnah by stating, “I am myself in Karnah.  There is no loss of any life or property.  The News spread on social media platform regarding 3 deaths, is fake, concocted and baseless.  Please don’t spread such fake news.”
I am myself in Karnah.  There is no loss of any life or property.  The News spread on social media platform regarding 3 deaths, is fake, concocted and baseless.  Please don't spread such fake news. pic.twitter.com/OcFG9DubK0
To sum it up, an old picture related to the Turkey earthquake is shared as picture of a collapsed building following the recent earthquake in Jammu and Kashmir.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/03/Earthquake-in-JKs-Karnah-Kupwara-Claim.jpg