URL: https://factly.in/unrelated-old-photo-is-falsely-shared-as-34-muslims-converted-to-hinduism-in-uttar-pradesh
Unrelated old photo is falsely shared as depicting 34 Muslims converting to Hinduism in UP - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-12-16T13:38:55+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it as the picture of 34 Muslims who had recently converted to the Hindu religion in Uttar Pradesh. This photo shows a group of Muslims posing along with a Hindu priest. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Picture of 34 Muslims who converted to Hindu religion in Uttar Pradesh.Fact: The photo shared in the post is an old picture of Muslims chanting anti-terrorist and anti-Pakistan slogans at Tablighi Jamaat Mosque in Vrindavan, Uttar Pradesh. Expressing their anguish over the Uri terrorist attack, these Muslims held a protest in 2016. There is no evidence of the Muslims seen in the photo converting to Hindu religion. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in an article published by the ‘Amar Ujala’ on 24 September 2016. This article reported it as the visuals of Muslims chanting anti-terrorist and anti-Pakistan slogans at Tablighi Jamaat Masjid in Vrindavan, Uttar Pradesh. Expressing their anguish over the terrorist attack in Uri, these Muslims had reportedly held this protest in 2016.
Also, the ‘Amar Ujala’ published a video related to this protest, where we could see these Muslims chanting ‘Aatankwad Murdabad’ and ‘Pakistan Murdabad’ slogans along with a Hindu priest.
Recently, in Muzaffarnagar, a group of 15 people from 5 families converted to Hinduism after 18 years.  Also, Waseem Rizvi, a former Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board Chairman renounced Islam and converted to Hinduism at Dasna Devi temple in Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh. But we could not find any news report about the conversion of these 34 Muslims.
To sum it up, an unrelated old photo is falsely shared as the picture of 34 Muslims who converted to Hinduism in Uttar Pradesh.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/12/34-Muslims-converted-to-Hinduism-in-Uttar-Pradesh-claim.jpg