URL: https://factly.in/unrelated-old-photos-are-being-shared-as-visuals-of-kangana-ranaut-celebrating-vijay-diwas-with-bsf-jawans
Unrelated old photos are being shared as visuals of Kangana Ranaut celebrating ‘Vijay Diwas’ with BSF Jawans - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-12-31T11:50:44+00:00
A collage of images is being shared on social media claiming it as recent visuals of Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut celebrating Vijay Diwas with BSF jawans. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Recent pictures of Kangana Ranaut celebrating ‘Vijay Diwas’ with BSF jawans.Fact: All the photos shared in the post were captured when Kangana Ranaut interacted with BSF Jawans in Jammu as part of her ‘Rangoon’ film promotions in 2017. The photos shared in the post are old and had nothing to do with the recent ‘Vijay Diwas’ celebrations. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
On reverse image search of the first photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in the ‘India Today’ article published on 07 February 2017. This article reported it as the visuals of Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut interacting with BSF Jawans as part of her ‘Rangoon’ film promotions in 2017.  As ‘Rangoon’ film story was set in the backdrop of the World War II, Kangana Ranaut reportedly visited the BSF camp in Jammu and interacted with jawans.  Also, in the background of the photo, we could see the poster of the Rangoon film.
On reverse image search, it is found out that the remaining three photos shared in the post were also shot during Kangana Ranaut’s visit to the BSF camp in Jammu, in 2017. Several news websites have published these photos reporting them as the visuals of Kangana interacting with BSF jawans in 2017.  They can be seen here, here, and here.
On 07 February 2017, the BSF official Twitter handle shared a photo of Kangana Ranaut and said, “Kangana Ranaut visited BSF Jammu & paid tribute at Martyrs memorial. Remembered supreme sacrifice made by Bordermen & their proud families”. We could not find any latest news reports about Kangana Ranaut joining ‘Vijay Diwas’ celebrations with Indian army soldiers.
#KanganaRanaut visited #BSF Jammu & paid tribute at Martyrs memorial. Remembered supreme sacrifice made by #Bordermen & their proud families pic.twitter.com/EHbxcj92vP
To sum it up, 2017 photos of Kangana Ranaut meeting BSF Jawans in Jammu are being shared as recent visuals of her celebrating ‘Vijay Diwas’ with Jawans.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/12/Kangana-Ranaut-celebrating-Vijay-Diwas-with-BSF-Jawans-claim.jpg