URL: https://factly.in/unrelated-images-shared-with-a-fabricated-story-of-a-man-hurting-his-wife-mistaking-her-snake-printed-stockings-for-a-real-snake
Unrelated images shared with a fabricated story of a man hurting his wife mistaking her snake-printed stockings for a real snake - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-04-16T08:28:50+00:00
A collage of images is being shared on social media claiming that a man had broken his wife’s foot mistaking her snake-printed pajamas for a real snake. The post shares a photo of a woman’s legs dressed in snake-printed stockings and another photo of a person’s injured foot. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Pictures of an injured woman’s feet after her husband mistook her snake-printed pajamas for a real snake.Fact: The first photo was used as a representative picture for a snake-printed stockings on several e-commerce websites. The other photo shared in the post shows an injured foot of a male patient who had joined the hospital after a cutter fell on his left foot. This fabricated story created using two unrelated images is being shared on social media at least since 2018. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Image 1:
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the same photo was found published as a representative picture for snake print stockings on several e-commerce websites. They can be seen here and here.
Image 2:
On reverse image search, the same photo of an injured foot was found in an article published by a Vietnamese website in January 2016. As part of the surgical internship, this article practically explained how to treat and apply stitches to a wound by showing a series of pictures of the treatment provided to a 36-year-old male patient. One of these pictures is the second image shared in the viral post. The patient’s name was mentioned as Nguyen Thanh Tyu and it was mentioned that he was admitted to the hospital after a cutter fell accidentally on his feet.     
We could not find any credible reports on the internet of the story of a man hurting his wife’s feet by mistaking her snake-printed stockings for a real snake. This fabricated story created using two unrelated images is being shared on the internet at least since 2018. Several fact-check organizations including the ‘Reuters’ and the ‘Snopes’ have debunked this fictional story circulating on social media.
To sum it up, unrelated images are shared with a fabricated story of a man hurting his wife’s feet mistaking her snake-printed stockings for a real snake. 

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/04/Man-injured-his-wife-mistaking-snake-printed-pajamas-for-a-real-snake-Claim.jpg