URL: https://factly.in/unrelated-old-images-of-injured-women-are-falsely-attributed-to-the-recent-riots-in-sweden
Unrelated old images of injured women are falsely attributed to the recent riots in Sweden - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-08-31T13:54:31+00:00
A post with a  photo collage of women whose faces are badly injured is doing rounds on social media with a claim that these women were assaulted by jihadists in recent riots in Sweden. Through this article let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo collage of women whose faces are severely injured in an alleged attack by jihadists in recent Swedish riots.
Fact: The post with these images were debunked by MIMAKAMA back in 2017 when they went viral with a different claim in Germany.  From the article, we can infer that these images are old and have nothing to do with the recent riots in Sweden. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Reverse image search of the photo in the post led us to a fact-check article (archived) which debunked this image when it went viral in Germany with a different claim back in 2017. With this, we can say that these images are old.
According to the article the photo collage was made using pictures of victims of various attacks from different countries. This article has tracked down the original sources of most of the pictures in the collage and as per these sources, none of the women seen in the collage is from Sweden. Let’s look at the origin of a few of these images below.
Image 1:
Image 4:
Image 15:
Swedish city Malmö has witnessed violent riots recently after a video was circulated by followers of the far-right Danish politician Rasmus Paludan burning a copy of the Quran. Hundreds of Muslims took part in the protests later burning tyres and pelting stones at the police.  But no deaths are reported in these riots so far.
To sum it up, old unrelated images of injured women from different countries are shared as those injured in the recent riots in Sweden.
Did you watch our new video?

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/08/Sweden-Riots-Tweet.jpg