URL: https://factly.in/unrelated-photos-are-shared-as-the-pictures-of-three-brothers-who-hanged-themselves-after-the-samajwadi-party-loss-in-the-up-elections
Unrelated photos are shared as the pictures of three brothers who hanged themselves after the Samajwadi Party's loss in the UP Elections - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-03-11T13:20:15+00:00
A collage of images is being shared on social media claiming that three brothers from the same family in Prayagraj hung themselves to death after the Samajwadi Party’s loss in the 2022 UP Assembly Elections. This post mentioned all three brothers as frustrated unemployed students. Let’s verify the claim made in the post. 
The archived version of the post can be seen here.  
Claim: Pictures of three brothers who hung themselves in Prayagraj after the Samajwadi Party’s loss in the UP Elections.
Fact: The photos shared in the post shows different suicide incidents that took place in different states of the country. The Prayagraj Police through a tweet clarified that all these pictures have nothing to do with the recent 2022 UP Elections and said that no such incident had taken place in the Prayagraj district after the election results. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Image 1:
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the same photo was found to be published by the ‘Sanjeevani Today’ news website on 24 November 2020. This article reported that a young man named Randhir Kumar was found hanging in his room in Ramgarh, Jharkhand. The initial police interrogation confirmed that Randhir was struggling with a financial crisis that may have led him to commit suicide. So, it is confirmed that the picture shows an old incident that has nothing to do with the 2022 UP Elections.
Image 2:
On reverse image search, the same photo was found in an article published by the ‘Taaza Samachar’ website. This article reported that a 40-year-old Rajesh Singh Rajput had committed suicide by hanging in his house in Begumganj, Madhya Pradesh. So, it is confirmed that the picture is not related to Uttar Pradesh.
We could not find the details of the other photo shared in the post. But when this collage of images went viral on social media, the Prayagraj Police through a tweet clarified that no such incident had taken place in the Prayagraj district. The Prayagraj Police confirmed that these photos circulating on social media have nothing to do with the 2022 UP Elections.
To sum it up, unrelated photos are shared as the pictures of three brothers hanged themselves after the Samajwadi Party’s loss in the UP Elections.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/03/Three-brothers-committed-suicide-after-Akhilesh-Yadav-loss-in-UP-Elections-Claim.jpg