URL: https://factly.in/unrelated-pakistani-womans-photo-is-shared-as-that-of-a-love-jihad-victim-in-india
Unrelated Pakistani woman’s photo is shared as that of a love-jihad victim in India - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-11-24T08:17:37+00:00
A post featuring an image of a news paper clipping about two Hindu girls who observed fast during Ramzan and another of a woman with injured face is being widely shared on social media. The post claims that the second image shows one of those Hindu girls and she was injured because of her Muslim husband’s assault. Let’s verify the claim made in the post. 
Claim: Image of an injured Hindu girl who was beaten by her Muslim husband.
Fact: As per the media reports, the names of the girls seen on viral newspaper clipping are Shivani and Riya from Madhya Pradesh. They observed a one-day fast during Ramzan in 2019 as a gesture promoting Hindu-Muslim unity. Whereas the image of the woman with injured face is identified as Hajra, living in Lahore, Pakistan. She was tortured by her husband Umar Noorani over dowry. Both these incidents are unrelated. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE
Image 1:
We searched the internet with relevant keywords and found that the newspaper clipping is of June 2019. According to Dainik Bhaskar and local media reports, two girls named Shivani and Riya from Madhya Pradesh observed a one-day fast on Ramzan as a gesture promoting Hindu-Muslim unity. 
Image 2:
According to Pakistani media reports, the woman with injured face is identified as Hajra, living in Lahore, Pakistan. She had alleged that she was tortured by her husband Umar Noorani and had suffered various injuries. On 23 March 2019, the Lahore Police registered an FIR in this matter. Other news reports regarding this incident can be seen here and here. 
To sum it up, unrelated Pakistani woman’s photo is shared as that of a love-jihad victim in India.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/11/love-jihad-victims-viral-post.jpg