URL: https://factly.in/unrelated-old-photos-revived-again-as-the-seized-weapons-from-rss-hideouts-in-delhi
Unrelated old photos revived again as the weapons seized from RSS hideouts in Delhi - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-03-24T10:38:42+00:00
Multiple images are being shared on social media claiming them as the pictures of weapons seized during an extensive police raid on RSS hideouts in Delhi. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photos of the weapons seized from RSS hideouts in Delhi.
Fact: The first photo in the post shows a sword factory located in Patiala city of Punjab. The second photo shows Rajkot police exhibiting the seized illegal weapons recovered from a hotel in Kuchiadad. The third photo was uploaded on the ‘Tumbler’ website in 2019. These photos have nothing to do with RSS. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Photo-1:
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in an article published by ‘India Today’ on 25 July 2018. ‘India Today’ reported it as an image taken at the ‘Khalsa Kirpan’ sword factory in Patiala city, Punjab. We found similar photos of weapons on the Facebook page of ‘Khalsa Kirpan’.
Photo-2:
On reverse image search, a similar photo was found in a tweet by ‘Gujarat Headline’ news website on 05 March 2016. Sharing a similar photo, ‘Gujarat Headline’ published an article on this incident. This article reported that the Rajkot police had recovered a stock of lethal weapons during a raid on the India Palace hotel in Kuchiadad. According to ‘The Times of India’ article, the Rajkot police seized 257 lethal weapons including swords and Knives in this raid.  
Photo-3:
On reverse image search, a similar photo was found on ‘Tumblr’ website. This photo was published on 03 March 2019. The same photo was found as a representative image in the Canada-based e-commerce website ‘CanSellAll’.
Earlier, when similar images were shared as the weapons recovered from mosques in Jammu and Kashmir, FACTLY published a fact-check article. It can be seen here.
To sum it up, unrelated old photos are revived again as the pictures of seized weapons from RSS hideouts in Delhi.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/03/Weapons-seized-in-RSS-hideouts-Claim.jpg