URL: https://factly.in/unrelated-old-photos-shared-as-recent-visuals-of-pakistan-ambulances-extending-medical-facilities-to-india
Unrelated old photos shared as recent visuals of Pakistani ambulances extending medical help to India - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-05-05T13:10:10+00:00
A collage with a couple of images is being shared on social media with a claim that the Pakistan Government had recently delivered a fleet of ambulances and medical staff to India. This post claims that the Pakistan Government had supplied oxygen, nurses, and 50 ambulances to help India fight against the COVID-19 virus. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Images of ambulances provided by Pakistan Government extending medical support to India.
Fact: The first photo in the post shows a fleet of ambulances waiting on a road in Thane, Maharashtra. The second photo shows a representative image of  Pakistan’s Edhi Foundation ambulance services. This photo was published first in April 2017. These photos have nothing to do with the ongoing COVID-19 crisis in India and Pakistan’s support.  Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Photo-1:
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in a Live Mint article published on 11 September 2020. This article reported it as the visual of a fleet of ambulances waiting on a road in Thane, Maharashtra. The same image is used as a representative image in several Indian news articles. They can be seen here and here.
Photo-2:
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in an article published by ‘THE EXPRESS TRIBUNE’ news website on 10 April 2017. This article shared it as a representative image of the ‘Edhi Foundation’ ambulance services. ‘Edhi Foundation’ is a Pakistan-based social welfare organisation. The same photo was published in the ‘CPEC Bulletin’ article about the ‘Edhi Foundation’ free ambulance service.
Faisal Edhi, the head of ‘Edhi Foundation’ in Pakistan, has recently offered 50 ambulances and medical support to PM Narendra Modi to help India’s fight against the COVID-19 virus. As of now,  the Indian Government did not approve this offer from the ‘Edhi Foundation’.  News articles published on Faisal Edhi letter to PM Narendra Modi can be seen here and here. 
To sum it up, unrelated old photos are shared as the recent visuals of Pakistan ambulances extending medical facilities to India

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/05/Pakistan-sending-Ambulances-to-IndiaEng-Claim.jpg