URL: https://factly.in/unrelated-old-photos-shared-as-pictures-showing-the-recent-communal-violence-in-haryana
Unrelated old visuals are being attributed to the recent communal violence in Haryana - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-08-07T10:07:00+00:00
Update (07 August 2023):
Video 6:
Another video is being shared on social media claiming it is the recent visuals of radicalised Muslim children and youth marching on a street holding weapons in Nuh, Haryana. Sharing the video, the post says that the Mewat violence exposed the truth of Gangan-Jamuni Tehzeeb.
But on a reverse image search of the screenshots of the video shared in the post, a video showing similar visuals was found recently posted by a few users on Facebook. They can be seen here and here. These users described it as the visuals of a Muharram procession in Dhuliyan municipality in Murshidabad, West Bengal.
On observing the video carefully, one could see a sculpture of a blue globe on the road where the youth were marching in a procession. When we searched for further sources using this information, we found that the blue globe sculpture is located near the CJ Patel Road area in Dhuliyan. A few other videos showing similar visuals of youth marching a rally holding swords during Muharram procession in Dhuliyan can be seen here, here, and here.
From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the video shared in the post shows a Muharram procession in the Murshidabad district of West Bengal and was not related to the recent violence in Haryana.
Update (04 August 2023):
Video 3:
A video is being shared on social media claiming it shows recent visuals of Muslims’ brutal attack on a person in Mewat.
But the video shows an old murder incident that took place in the Comilla district of Bangladesh. An accused in a murder case was brutally killed by rivals on 01 April 2017 in the Comilla district. When a few social media users shared the video mentioning it to be an incident from Jammu and Kashmir in July 2017,  Jansatta published an article clarifying that the incident took place in Bangladesh, not in the Jammu and Kashmir state in India.  The video shared in the post is old and has nothing to do with the ongoing violence in Haryana.
Video 4:
Another video is being shared on social media claiming it shows visuals of a Hindu mob chasing a Muslim man and brutally thrashing him in Haryana. A few users shared the video describing that it depicts state-sponsored terrorism in India.
On reverse image search of the video shared in the post, a video showing similar visuals was found posted by the Badaltha Uttarakhand news site and other social media users recently on Facebook. They reported it as the visuals of a Hindu mob chasing a Muslim and thrashing him in front of Mahant Indresh Hospital in Uttarakhand. As per the information provided by Badaltha Uttarakhand, the incident had taken place on 29 July 2023. On comparing the visuals of Mahant Indresh Hospital in the Patel Nagar area in Dehradun with that of the visuals shown in the post, it can be confirmed that the incident had taken place in Uttarakhand, not in Haryana.
Video 5:
Another video of a weeping elderly man is being shared on social media claiming it shows visuals of a Hindu victim of Mewat violence who saved his life by hiding in a temple.
On reverse image search of the screenshots of the video, similar visuals were found posted by a Reddit user in November 2020. This user published video with the description, “Pakistani Hindu Hari, curses and beats himself for being born as Hindu. His daughter was abducted and gang raped. She is in serious condition right now”. Several YouTube channels and a few sites published the video with the same information in 2020. The video shared in the post is old and not related to the recent communal violence in Haryana.
Update (03 August 2023):
Video 1:
A video is being shared on social media claiming it is the recent visuals showing Muslims vandalizing a bus in Mewat, renamed as Nuh, in Haryana.
On observing the video carefully, one could see ‘Sitilink’ imprinted on the vandalized bus. The Sitilink or Surat BRTS is an integrated bus rapid transit and public bus transport system operated in Surat, Gujarat. When we searched for further sources using relevant keywords, we found similar visuals of a vandalized bus in a video published by the Divyang News Channel in July 2019. The description of the video states, “Surat l Police fire tear gas shells as rally against mob lynching incidents turns violent.” Several news sites published articles reporting about this violence that took place in Surat in 2019. They can be seen here and here.
Video 2:
Another video is being shared on social media claiming it is the recent visuals of a Hindu mob inciting violence by pelting stones at the Muslim community in Gurugram, Haryana.
But the video shared in the post was circulating on social media at least since August 2022. News sites published the video reporting it to be visuals of BJP workers pelting stones during Bandi Sanjay’s padayatra in Telangana.  The video shared in the post is old and has nothing to do with the recent communal clashes in Nuh and Gurugram cities in Haryana.
Published (02 August 2023):
A collage of images is being shared on social media claiming it shows the recent violence in Haryana. In the wake of recent communal clashes in Haryana’s Nuh, these images are widely shared on social media. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Recent pictures showing the violence in Haryana.
Fact: All the images shared in the post are old, and are related to the anti-CAA protests and violence that occurred after the arrest of Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in 2017 and during the two-day Bharath Bandh in 2013. The images have nothing to do with the recent communal clashes in Haryana. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.
Photo 1:
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the same photo was found in an article published by the National Herald news site in August 2017. This news site reported it is the visuals of violence that were triggered after Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh was convicted in a rape case in Panchkula. Reporting the same, several other news sites too published articles sharing the same photo in 2017.
Photo 2:
On reverse image search of the photo, the same photo was found in an article published by Outlook in December 2019. The description of the photo states, “Policeman hits a civilian during a protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, at Babu Purwa in Kanpur.” Several other news sites also published the same photo reporting that the photo was taken during the anti-CAA protests in 2019.
Photo 3:
On reverse image search, the same photo was found in an article published by the Times of India on 25 December 2019. The description of the photo states, “Police personnel clash with protestors during a rally against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in Kanpur on Saturday.” Reporting it is the visuals from anti-CAA protests in Uttar Pradesh, several news sites published articles in 2019. They can be seen here and here.
Photo 4:
On reverse image search of the photo, the same photo was found in an article published by NDTV on 20 February 2013. NDTV in the article reported that during the two-day Bharath Bandh called by 11 major trade unions, factories and cars were vandalized in Greater Noida near Delhi. Reporting the same, several news sites published articles sharing the same photo in 2013. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the photos shared in the post are old and have nothing to do with the recent communal clashes in Haryana.
To sum it up, unrelated old photos were shared as pictures showing the recent communal violence in Haryana.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/08/Muslim-youth-marching-a-rally-holding-swords-in-Mewat-Claim.jpg