URL: https://factly.in/unrelated-old-photo-shared-as-picture-of-a-young-student-who-was-thrashed-for-celebrating-pakistans-victory
Unrelated old photo shared as picture of a young student thrashed for celebrating Pakistan’s victory - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-10-29T13:53:28+00:00
The photo of a severely injured young man is being shared on social media claiming him as one of the 90 students who were assaulted after celebrating the Pakistan cricket team’s victory in Gurdaspur. This photo shows a young man with injuries on his face. According to a few media reports, 90 Kashmiri students from Punjab’s ‘Bhai Gurdas Institute of Engineering and Technology’ were assaulted alleging that they have cheered for Pakistan’s victory in the T20 World Cup match with India. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo of a young student who was brutally beaten for celebrating the Pakistan cricket team’s victory on 24 October 2021 in the T20 world cup.
Fact: The photo shared in the post is an old one. This photo was published by a Facebook user named Rahul Kumar on 15 February 2016. Sharing a group of similar photos, this Facebook user mentioned that he was injured in an accident. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the photo, a similar photo was found posted by a Facebook user named Rahul Kumar on 15 February 2016. Sharing a group of similar photos, he mentioned that he was injured in an accident.
The profile picture of this Facebook user matched with the Young man in the photo. Rahul Kumar claimed himself as a BJP karyakartha from Jamshedpur city in Jharkhand. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the photo shared in the post is an old one and has nothing to do with the recent T20 World Cup match between India and Pakistan.
To sum it up, an unrelated old photo was falsely shared as the visuals of a young student who was beaten for celebrating Pakistan’s victory.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/10/student-thrashed-for-clebrating-Pakistan-victory-Claim.jpg