URL: https://factly.in/unrelated-old-photo-shared-as-picture-taken-when-arvind-kejriwal-offered-an-apology-to-nitin-gadkari
Unrelated old photo shared as picture taken when Arvind Kejriwal offered an apology to Nitin Gadkari - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-04-04T07:12:57+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it is a picture taken when Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal offered a written apology to BJP leader and Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photo which was taken when Arvind Kejriwal offered a written apology to BJP leader and Union Minister Nitin Gadkari.
Fact: The photo shared in the post was taken in September 2014 when Arvind Kejriwal met Nitin Gadkari over the regularisation of e-rickshaws at the Transport Bhawan in Delhi. The photo was not taken when Arvind Kejriwal submitted a written apology to Nitin Gadkari related related to a 2014 defamation case in 2018. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the same photo was found on the ‘Getty Images’ website, with the description, “Aam Aadmi Party convener Arvind Kejriwal with Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari during a meeting on regularizing e-rickshaws at Transport Bhawan on September 16, 2014 in New Delhi, India.”
ANI tweeted another photo from the meeting and reported that Arvind Kejriwal had met Union Minister Nitin Gadkari over the e-rickshaw issue.
Delhi: Arvind Kejriwal meets Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari over the e-rickshaw issue pic.twitter.com/2cgzPqDvVS
Aam Aadmi Leader Kejriwal sent a written apology to Nitin Gadkari In 2018 seeking closure of a defamation case filed against him over his comments in 2014. But the photo shared in the post was not taken when Arvind Kejriwal sought an apology from Nitin Gadkari in 2018.
To sum it up, an unrelated old photo is shared as a picture taken when Arvind Kejriwal offered an apology to Nitin Gadkari.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/04/Kejriwal-seeking-an-apology-from-Nitin-Gadkari-Claim.jpg