URL: https://factly.in/unrelated-old-photo-from-a-rally-in-nigeria-shared-as-huge-crowd-at-bharat-jodo-yatra-rally-in-ballari
Unrelated old photo from a rally in Nigeria shared as huge crowd at Bharat Jodo Yatra rally in Ballari - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-10-16T08:00:10+00:00
A photo is being shared on social media claiming it is a recent picture of huge crowds at the Bharat Jodo Yatra rally in Ballari, Karnataka. Let’s verify the claim made in the post. 
Claim: Photo of huge crowds who attended the Bharat Jodo Yatra in Ballari.
Fact: The photo in the post shows an old picture of huge crowds that gathered for evangelist Reinhard Bonnke’s rally in Nigeria. The photo shared in the post is old and has nothing to do with the Bharat Jodo Yatra. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.   
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the same photo was found in an article published by the ‘Milost.sk’ website in 2010. This article reported it as the visuals of the crowd gathered for evangelist Reinhard Bonnke’s rally in Nigeria. A few websites published the photo crediting it to the Christ for all Nations (CfaN) website.
When we searched for this photo using these keywords on the internet, we found the same photo in an image collection published on the CfaN press portal. CfaN published this image describing it as a picture showing the crowd that gathered for Reinhard Bonnke’s rally. Reinhard Bonnke shared a similar picture on his Facebook page reporting it as the visuals of the crowd gathered at Ogbomosho city in Nigeria during a meeting in 2002. Similar details are available in an impact report uploaded on Reinhard Bonnke’s website.
In 2015, a few news websites reported it as the image of the crowd that gathered for Muhammudo Bihari’s political rally in Kano, Nigeria. 
The photos of crowd present for the Bharat Jodo Yatra rally in Ballari can be seen here, here and here. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the photo shared in the post is from an old rally in Nigeria and has nothing to do with Bharat Jodo Yatra rally in Ballari, Karanataka.
#BharatJodoYatra ಯ 38ನೇ ದಿನವಾದ ಇಂದು ಬಳ್ಳಾರಿಯ ಸಮಾವೇಶಕ್ಕೆ ಕಣ್ಣೋಟವನ್ನೂ ಮೀರಿಸುವ ಬೃಹತ್ ಜನಸಾಗರ ಹರಿದು ಬಂದಿದೆ.ಬಳ್ಳಾರಿಯನ್ನ, ಇಲ್ಲಿನ ಗಣಿ ಸಂಪನ್ಮೂಲವನ್ನ ಅಕ್ರಮವಾಗಿ ಲೂಟಿ ಮಾಡಿ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕದಲ್ಲಿ ಬೆಳೆದು ಬಂದ ಬಿಜೆಪಿ 2023ರಲ್ಲಿ ಇಡೀ ರಾಜ್ಯದಿಂದ ಗಂಟೂ ಮೂಟೆ ಕಟ್ಟಲಿದೆ.ಇದೇ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕದ ಜನರ ನಿಜವಾದ “ಜನ ಸಂಕಲ್ಪ. pic.twitter.com/mg9FzqHvW4
To sum it up, an unrelated old photo from a rally in Nigeria is shared as the crowds that attended the Bharat Jodo Yatra rally in Ballari.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/10/Crowd-at-the-Bharath-Jodo-Rally-in-Ballari-Claim.jpg