URL: https://factly.in/unrelated-photos-falsely-shared-as-wealth-left-by-the-dead-kuwait-billionaire-nasser-al-kharafi
Unrelated photos falsely shared as wealth left behind by the dead Kuwait billionaire Nasser Al-Kharafi - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-03-06T14:37:53+00:00
Some photos are being shared on social media with a claim that they show the wealth left behind by the Kuwait billionaire Nasser Al-Kharafi after his death. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: Photos of wealth left behind by the Kuwait billionaire Nasser Al-Kharafi after his death.
Fact: The photos of wealth in the post are not related to Nasser Al-Kharafi, a billionaire belonging to Kuwait. He died in April 2011. FACTLY could not find any credible evidence to confirm about the tomb photo of Nasser Al-Kharafi. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
When we searched on the internet about the Kuwait billionaire mentioned in the post, it was found that there was a Kuwait billionaire with the name – ‘Nasser Al-Kharafi’. He died in April 2011. According to ‘Forbes’, Nasser Al-Kharafi & family had a net worth of $10.4 billion in 2011.
Let’s check if the photos in the post are related to him.
Photo 1:
The photo was found to be related to the Bank of England in London. Similar visuals can be seen in a video published by ‘BBC News’ on the Bank of England’s gold vaults.
Photo 2:
The same photo can be found on the official website of ‘U.S. Customs and Border Protection’ with the description – ‘$3M in illicit currency seized by Border Patrol agents’. The news article published on the incident can be read here.
Photo 3:
A cropped version of the photo can be found on the ‘National Geographic’ website. The description of the photo reads – ‘Stacks of gold bars fill a bank vault, Pretoria, South Africa.’ Also, the same picture can be found to be uploaded by a user in an album – ‘National Geographic Magazine scans’, on ‘Flickr’.
Photo 4:
The picture was posted by a user on ‘Flickr’ with the description – ‘Swarovski Crystal Staircases on the MSC Fantasia’. The EXIF data of the picture can be also seen on the website. ‘MSC Fantasia is a Fantasia-class cruise ship owned and operated by MSC Cruises’. More details about the MSC Cruises can be read here.
Photo 5:
The golden-colour yacht in one of the photos is ‘Khalilah’. It was built after the death of Nasser Al-Kharafi. So, it is not related to him. More details regarding the yacht can be read here and here.
Photo 6:
The golden-colour car photo was posted by ‘West Coast Customs’ on Facebook in 2015. In one of their posts, ‘West Coast Customs’ has written – ‘this Gold Rolls we built in 2015 for The Gumball 3000’. So, this photo was taken after the death of Nasser Al-Kharafi.
While we could not find credible details regarding some photos in the post, the details regarding other photos can be found here, here, here, here, here, here, and here.
The exact details regarding the tomb photo were not available.  Nasser Al-Kharafi’s funeral photos can be seen here.
In the article, it is written that the funeral took place at the Sulaibikhat Cemetery, Kuwait. The Google Street View of the cemetery can be seen here. We could not find the pictures of Nasser Al-Kharafi’s tomb.
To sum it up, unrelated photos are falsely shared as wealth left behind by the dead Kuwait billionaire Nasser Al-Kharafi.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/03/Kuwait-Billionair-assets-FB-Post.jpg