URL: https://factly.in/unrelated-old-photos-of-jaivardhan-singh-shared-now-in-the-context-of-kamal-naths-recent-remarks
Unrelated old photos of Jaivardhan Singh shared now in the context of Kamal Nath’s recent remarks - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-10-20T13:22:14+00:00
A collage of images is being shared on social media claiming that Congress workers have torn the clothes of Jaivardhan Singh, the son of Congress leader Digvijaya Singh, following the inciting comments by Congress leader and Madhya Pradesh Former Chief Minister Kamal Nath. In the wake of Kamal Nath’s recent alleged “Tear Digvijaya Singh and Jaivardhan’s clothes” comments expressing his disappointment over Congress’s poll ticket distribution in Madhya Pradesh, the images are going viral on social media. Let’s verify the claims made in the post.
Claim: Images of Jaivardhan Singh after his clothes were torn by Congress workers following the provocative remarks of Kamal Nath.
Fact: The images were taken in 2021 when Jaivardhan Singh’s clothes were torn during the youth congress protest against the BJP government in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh. The images shared in the post are old and have nothing to do with Kamal Nath’s recent remarks targeting Digvijaya Singh and his son Jaivardhan Singh. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.
On reverse image search of the photos shared in the post, the same photo was found tweeted by Jaivardhan Singh on 11 August 2021. Jaivardhan Singh tweeted the photo with the description, “To save this country from inflation. Every oppression is acceptable for this body.”
महंगाई से बचाने, इस "वतन" के लिए।हर जुल्म मंजूर है, इस तन के लिए ।। pic.twitter.com/8m2riwAFbl
When we searched the internet for further sources using relevant keywords, the same photos were found published by several news sites in August 2021. A few of those news reports can be seen here, here, and here. The photo was reportedly taken during the Youth Congress Protest against the government in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh.
In August 2021, Congress issued a call to Gherao the residence of Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in Bhopal to protest several issues including the Pegasus snooping allegations, unemployment, and inflation. Police used water cannons and tear gas shells to disperse the Congress protestors while they were attempting to climb over the police barricades. As per the reports, police registered FIRs against four Congress leaders including Jaivardhan Singh after this protest in August 2021. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the images shared in the post are old and not related to Kamal Nath’s recent comments against Digvijaya Singh and his son Jaivardhan Singh.
To sum it up, unrelated old photos of Jaivardhan Singh are being shared now in the context of Kamal Nath’s recent alleged remarks targeting both him and his father Digvijaya Singh.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/10/Jaivardhan-Singhs-clothes-torn-after-Kamal-Naths-comments-claim.jpg