URL: https://factly.in/unrelated-photos-falsely-shared-as-mysterious-tunnels-in-dwaraka
Unrelated photos falsely shared as mysterious tunnels in Dwaraka - FACTLY

Publication Date:2021-03-09T13:22:04+00:00
A collage with a couple of images is being shared on social media claiming it as the pictures of mysterious tunnels in Dwaraka. This post claims that an English author named John Wood published a book about the mysterious tunnels in Dwaraka. Let’s verify the claims made in the post.
Claim: Photos of the mysterious tunnels in Dwaraka.
Fact: The first photo in the post shows a digitally created image, designed by a graphic designer named Batkya. The second photo shows a pedestrian tunnel constructed between Kamenovo beach and Rafailovici village in Montenegro. It is nowhere reported that an English author named John Wood, published a book on the Dwaraka Tunnels. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Photo-1:
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found in an art community website ‘DeviantArt’. It is mentioned as a digitally created image designed by a graphic designer named Batkya. Batkya published this image on the ‘Behance’ image sharing website.
Batkya (actual name Sergey Likhachev), is a graphic designer from Moscow city in Russia. He created this image as part of his ‘Lost City’ album. Batkya shared the making process of this image on his YouTube channel. ‘Creative Media’ also shared this video on their YouTube channel. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the photo shared in the post is a digitally created image.
Photo-2:
On the reverse image search, a similar photo was found in an article published by the ‘Total Montenegro News’ website. According to the article, this photo shows a pedestrian tunnel constructed between Kamenovo beach and Rafailovici village in Montenegro. Reporting the same, another news website published a similar image in their article.
‘Trip Advisor’ website also mentioned it as a tunnel constructed between Kamenovo beach and Rafailovici village. Similar images of this tunnel can be found on Alamy, Shutter Stock websites. A similar image of the tunnel is also available in Google Maps. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the photo shared in the post shows a pedestrian tunnel in Montenegro country.
We could not find any reports on English author John Wood publishing the ‘Unsolved and Dangerous Mysteries’ book about the mysterious tunnels in Dwaraka.
To sum it up, unrelated photos falsely shared as the mysterious tunnels in Dwaraka.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2021/03/The-Mysterious-Tunnels-in-Dwaraka-Claim.jpg