URL: https://factly.in/unrelated-image-from-haryana-shared-as-rjd-workers-dumping-sweets-after-the-election-loss-in-bihar
Unrelated image from Haryana shared as RJD workers dumping sweets after the election loss in Bihar - FACTLY

Publication Date:2020-11-13T09:46:14+00:00
A post with an image of food being dumped is being widely shared across social media platforms with the claim that the image shows RJD workers dumping Rasgulla’s (sweets) into the ground after losing the Bihar elections. Through this article let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.
Claim: RJD workers dumped Rasgullas (sweets) into the ground after losing the Bihar elections.
Fact: The image actually shows unhygienic sweets filled with flies which were unearthed during a food safety drive conducted by the Chief Minister’s flying squad and the Food and Safety department in Sirsa, Haryana. The image has nothing to do with RJD or Bihar elections. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
Reverse image search of the photo in the post led us to a news article dated 10 November 2020 which carried a similar image. According to the news article, the image shows unhygienic sweets filled with flies being dumped which were unearthed during an inspection raid conducted by the Chief Minister’s flying squad along with Food and Safety department in Sirsa, Haryana as the team found flies in the sweets.
Further search led us to another news article which carried another image from the food safety raid. Even this article reports that the image is related to a food safety raid conducted in Sirsa as it is festive season. It can be safely concluded that the image is not from Bihar and the image has nothing to do with RJD or Bihar elections.
In the light of the recent Bihar elections in which RJD led alliance could not get a majority, claims like these are being widely shared on social media platforms with misleading claims.
To sum it up,  the image related to a food safety drive conducted in Sirsa, Haryana is falsely shared as RJD workers dumping Rasgullas (sweets) after losing the Bihar elections.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2020/11/RJD-Rasgullas-FB-Post.jpg