URL: https://factly.in/unrelated-old-photos-shared-as-pictures-of-indian-army-vehicles-that-were-hit-by-a-massive-landslide-in-ladakh
Unrelated old photos shared as pictures of Indian army vehicles that were hit by a massive landslide in Ladakh - FACTLY

Publication Date:2022-10-21T12:03:33+00:00
A collage of images is being shared on social media claiming it as the pictures of Indian army vehicles that were recently hit by a massive landslide in Ladakh. This post claims that six Indian army soldiers were killed in the accident. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Recent pictures of damaged Indian army vehicles after being hit by a massive landslide in Ladakh.
Fact: The first image shared in the post shows an old picture of the Indian Air Force (IAF) rescuing stranded persons from the Naraa Hajipur road in the Kutch district. The other two photos shared in the post show the old accident pictures of Indian army vehicles in Jammu Kashmir’s Pulwama district and Arunachal Pradesh. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE. 
Image 1:
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the same image was found in an article published by the ‘News 18’ news website in October 2019. The description of the photo states, “IAF rescues 125 people in Kutch region.” When we searched for further sources, we found the same picture in a tweet published by the Indian Air Force (IAF) on 12 August 2019. IAF described it as a picture of the IAF crew rescuing 125 stranded persons from the Naraa Hajipur Road, Bhuj Taluka, Kutch district. So, it can be confirmed that the photo shared in the post is old and not related to any recent accident of Indian army vehicles in Jammu and Kashmir.
Showing great skill & courage, #IAF crew swiftly rescued 125 stranded persons from the Naraa Hajipur Road, Bhuj Taluka, Kutch district. As we combat the fury of the floods, IAF reaffirms its commitment to the Nation in providing rescue and relief to all in need. 2/2 #FloodRelief pic.twitter.com/1HWZH1UT6s
Image 2:
On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, the same photo was found in an article published by the ‘East Mojo’ news website on 18 October 2019. This article reported it is the picture of an army truck that slipped off the road and fell into a gorge near Shaitan bridge in the West Kameng district of Arunachal Pradesh. The description of the photo states, “The truck fell into the gorge while approaching the gradient up turning near the bridge Credit: EastMojo image.” So, it can be concluded that the photo shows an old accident that happened in Arunachal Pradesh.
Image 3:
On reverse image search, the same photo was found in an article published by the ‘Great Kashmir’ news website. The article reported it is a picture of an army vehicle that met with an accident in the Awantipora area of South Kashmir’s Pulwama district on 19 September 2020. The army vehicle reportedly skidded off the road and crashed into a field in Dangerpora village of the Pulwama district. Two soldiers were reportedly injured in this accident.
We could not find any credible sources regarding the last photo shared in the post. Lately, three Indian army vehicles were buried under a mudslide after being hit by a massive landslide in Ladakh. The preliminary reports stated that at least six soldiers were killed in this accident. But the photos shared in the post are old and not related to this recent accident in Ladakh.
To sum it up, unrelated old photos are being shared as recent pictures of Indian army vehicles that were hit by a massive landslide in Ladakh.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2022/10/Massive-landslide-in-Ladakh-killed-six-soldiers-Claim.jpg