URL: https://factly.in/viral-image-of-snake-with-alleged-nagamani-is-manipulated
Viral Image of Snake with Alleged Nagamani Is Manipulated - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-04-07T12:25:28+00:00
An image depicting a snake with a radiant gem on its head is circulating widely on social media. The claim accompanying the photo states that it shows a snake with the legendary snake stone, or “Nagamani.”. In addition to the primary image, several other photos have been shared, showcasing a bright light spot near the snake, purportedly representing the Nagamani. Let’s uncover the truth behind these claims.
Claim: Images depicting a snake with a brightly lit snake-stone, or Nagamani, on its head and surroundings.
Fact: The image of the snake with the alleged Nagamani on its head is manipulated. However, a snake catcher from a village in Madhya Pradesh claimed that he recently observed a bright, shining object near the snake he captured, but he was unsure of its nature. Although we could not independently verify the cause of the bright spot near the snake in other images, there is no evidence supporting the existence of snakes emitting or carrying shining objects. Hence the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.
According to a local media report, this incident took place in Ratnara’s village in Madhya Pradesh on 29 March 2023. Shailaj Borkar, a snake catcher, was called upon by a villager to remove a snake from a drain. After capturing the snake, he released it near the fields. Later, he claimed that the snake had emitted a bright glowing light through an object. Although he was unsure of its nature, the villagers referred to it as the Nagamani. His interview can be viewed here.
We reached out to Mahendra Lilhare, the reporter from News Prabhat Media, to gather more details about the case. He shared with us the photos taken by Shailaj Borkar during the incident. These images display a bright spot near the snake. However, the picture of the snake with the Nagamani on its head is a morphed one, as the original image does not show any gem on the snake’s head. These photos can also be seen on the website of News Prabhat Media. Shailaj Borkar is unavailable at the moment.
While we could not independently verify the cause of the bright spot near the snake in the other pictures, it is evident that the image of the snake with a gem on its head is manipulated. Furthermore, there is no evidence to support the existence of snakes emitting or carrying shining objects.
To sum it up, a morphed image is being circulated, falsely portraying a snake with a Nagamani on its head.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/04/nagamani-claim.png