URL: https://factly.in/viral-image-shows-the-traditional-wedding-ceremony-of-indian-bowler-prasidh-krishna-not-nirmala-seetharamans-daughter
Viral Image shows the traditional wedding ceremony of Indian bowler Prasidh Krishna, not Nirmala Sitharaman’s daughter - FACTLY

Publication Date:2023-06-15T09:08:27+00:00
An image that shows a bridegroom tying the knot to a bride while she is seated on a person’s lap is being widely shared, claiming to be a photograph from the wedding of Indian Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s daughter. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.
Claim: Image from the wedding of Nirmala Sitharaman’s daughter, where the bride is seen sitting on a man’s lap while the bridegroom is tying her knot.
Fact: The viral image does not show the wedding ceremony of Nirmala Sitharaman’s daughter. The couple in the image are Indian fast bowler Prasidh Krishna and his wife Rachana. Moreover, person on whose lap Rachana is seated is not a priest, but her father. This image captures a moment from the traditional Tamil Brahmin wedding ritual known as Kanyadaan, where the bride is symbolically seated on her father’s lap while the bridegroom proceeds to tie the knot. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.
According to media reports (here, here, and here), Nirmala Sitharaman’s daughter, Parakala Vangamayi, got married to PMO official Pratik Doshi in Bengaluru on 08 June 2023. However, after a closer look, it is evident that the couple seen in the viral image are not Vangamayi and Pratik.
Upon conducting a reverse image search of the viral image, it was discovered that the bridegroom featured in the image is Prasidh Krishna, a fast bowler of the Indian Cricket team. He shared this photograph on his Instagram account on 08 June 2023. According to reports, Prasidh Krishna tied the knot with Rachana in a traditional South Indian wedding ceremony.
A post shared by Prasidh Krishna (@skiddyy)
Moreover, it is important to note that the individual upon whose lap Rachana is seated in the viral image is not a priest, but her father. It is pertinent to note that in Traditional Tamil Brahmin weddings, a significant ritual called Kanyadaan takes place, during which the bride is ceremoniously seated on her father’s lap while the bridegroom proceeds to tie the knot. This ritual bears cultural and symbolic significance as it signifies the act of the bride’s father entrusting his beloved daughter to the groom and seeking his solemn commitment to be her lifelong companion. More visuals of such weddings can be seen here and here.
To sum it up, the viral image does not show the wedding of Nirmala Sitharaman’s daughter. The couple in the image are Indian fast bowler Prasidh Krishna and his wife Rachana.

Comments are closed.

Image URLs :
https://factly.in/wp-content/uploads//2023/06/frgb.png